src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/email-security/setup/manage-domains.mdx, before:

---
title: Manage domains
sidebar:
  order: 4
---

Once you have deployed your domain, Email security allows you to filter and edit domains. You can also choose to stop a domain from being scanned.

## Filter domains

To filter your domains:

1. Log in to [Cloudflare One](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/) > **Email security**.
2. Go to **Settings** > **Domain management** > **Domains**, then select **View**.
3. Select **Show filters** > **Configured method**. Choose among the following filters: - **MS Graph API**: To view domains connected via MS Graph API. - **BCC/Journaling**: To view domains connected via BCC/Journaling. - **MX/Inline**: To view domains connected via MX/Inline. - **Retro Scan**: To view domains scanned by Retro Scan.
4. Select **Apply filters**.

## Edit domains

To edit your domains:

1. Log in to [Cloudflare One](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/) > **Email security**.
2. Go to **Settings** > **Domain management** > **Domains**, then select **View**.
3. On the **Domains** page, locate your domain, select the three dots > **Edit**.
4. If you did not manually add your domain, you will only be able to edit **Hops**. If you manually added your domain, you will be able to edit **Domain name** and **Hops**.
5. Select **Save**.

## Prevent Cloudflare from scanning a domain

To stop scanning domains:

1. Log in to [Cloudflare One](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/) > **Email security**.
2. Go to **Settings** > **Domain management** > **Domains**, then select **View**.
3. On the **Domains** page, locate your domain, select the three dots > **Stop scanning**.
4. Select **Stop scanning** again to stop Cloudflare from scanning your domain.

Commit message:

[Email security] Revamp domain management information page (#27965)
* [Email security] Revamp domain management information page

* Update src/content/partials/cloudflare-one/email-security/domain-information.mdx

Co-authored-by: marciocloudflare <83226960+marciocloudflare@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: marciocloudflare <83226960+marciocloudflare@users.noreply.github.com>

src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/email-security/setup/manage-domains.mdx, after:

---
title: Manage domains
sidebar:
  order: 4
---

Once you have deployed your domain, Email security allows you to add, filter and edit domains. You can also choose to stop a domain from being scanned.

## Add domains

To protect a new domain:

1. Log in to [Cloudflare One](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com) > Email security.
2. Select **Settings**, go to **Domains** and select **View**.
3. Select **Add a domain**.

## Filter domains

To filter your domains:

1. Log in to [Cloudflare One](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/) > **Email security**.
2. Go to **Settings** > **Domain management** > **Domains**, then select **View**.
3. Select **Show filters** > **Configured method**. Choose among the following filters: - **MS Graph API**: To view domains connected via MS Graph API. - **BCC/Journaling**: To view domains connected via BCC/Journaling. - **MX/Inline**: To view domains connected via MX/Inline. - **Retro Scan**: To view domains scanned by Retro Scan.
4. Select **Apply filters**.

## Edit domains

To edit your domains:

1. Log in to [Cloudflare One](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/) > **Email security**.
2. Go to **Settings** > **Domain management** > **Domains**, then select **View**.
3. On the **Domains** page, locate your domain, select the three dots > **Edit**.
4. If you did not manually add your domain, you will only be able to edit **Hops**. If you manually added your domain, you will be able to edit **Domain name** and **Hops**.
5. Select **Save**.

## Prevent Cloudflare from scanning a domain

To stop scanning domains:

1. Log in to [Cloudflare One](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/) > **Email security**.
2. Go to **Settings** > **Domain management** > **Domains**, then select **View**.
3. On the **Domains** page, locate your domain, select the three dots > **Stop scanning**.
4. Select **Stop scanning** again to stop Cloudflare from scanning your domain.
