src/content/docs/dns/zone-setups/conversions/convert-secondary-to-partial.mdx, before:

---
title: Convert secondary setup to partial setup
pcx_content_type: tutorial
sidebar:
  order: 8
  label: Secondary to partial
---

import { GlossaryTooltip, Details, Render } from "~/components";

If you initially set up [incoming zone transfers (Cloudflare as secondary)](/dns/zone-setups/zone-transfers/cloudflare-as-secondary/setup/), you can later convert your zone to use a <GlossaryTooltip term="partial setup">partial setup</GlossaryTooltip>.

<Render file="conversion-subdomain-setup-callout" product="dns" />

Follow the steps below to achieve this conversion.

## 1. Stop transferring the zone

<Render file="secondary-conversion-unlink" product="dns" />

## 2. Configure your authoritative DNS provider

1. (Optional) If you are also migrating to a new authoritative DNS provider, export a zone file from the previous provider and import it into the new one.
2. At your authoritative DNS provider, create `CNAME` records pointing to `{your-hostname}.cdn.cloudflare.net` for every hostname you wish to proxy through Cloudflare.

   <Details header="Example CNAME record at authoritative DNS provider">

   The `CNAME` record for `www.example.com` would be:

   ```txt
   www.example.com CNAME www.example.com.cdn.cloudflare.net
   ```

   </Details>

3. At your authoritative DNS provider, remove any previously existing `A`, `AAAA`, or `CNAME` records referencing the hostnames you want to proxy through Cloudflare. For these hostnames, leave only the records pointing to `{your-hostname}.cdn.cloudflare.net`.

## 3. Convert your Cloudflare zone

1. Back at your Cloudflare zone, confirm that you have all the `A`, `AAAA`, or `CNAME` [DNS records](/dns/manage-dns-records/how-to/create-dns-records/) needed for the hostnames you pointed to `{your-hostname}.cdn.cloudflare.net` in the previous step. You can also delete any DNS records that have a different type, as they will no longer resolve once you convert your zone to a partial setup.
2. Use the [Edit Zone endpoint](/api/resources/zones/methods/edit/) with `type` set to `partial` to convert the zone type. Existing DNS records will not be affected.
3. On [**DNS** > **Records**](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/:zone/dns/records), get the **Verification TXT Record** and add it at your authoritative DNS provider.

   <Details header="Example verification record">

   A verification record for `sub.example.com` might be:

   | Type | Name                                | Content             |
   | ---- | ----------------------------------- | ------------------- |
   | TXT  | `cloudflare-verify.sub.example.com` | 966215192-518620144 |

   If your authoritative DNS provider automatically appends DNS record `name` fields with your domain, make sure to only insert `cloudflare-verify` as the record name. Otherwise, it may result in an incorrect record name, such as `cloudflare-verify.sub.example.com.sub.example.com`.

   After creating the record, you can use this [Dig Web Interface link](https://digwebinterface.com/?type=TXT&ns=auth&nameservers=) to search (`dig`) for `cloudflare-verify.<YOUR DOMAIN>` and validate if it is working.

   </Details>

   :::note
   The verification record must remain in place for as long as you want your partial setup to be active on Cloudflare.
   :::

## 4. Update nameservers

At your domain registrar (or parent zone), [update the nameservers](/dns/nameservers/update-nameservers/). In a partial (CNAME) setup, only the nameservers of your external DNS provider should be listed.

    - Remove any `secondary.cloudflare.com` nameservers if you used to have them.
    - If you are also migrating to a new authoritative DNS provider, add your new nameservers.

Commit message:

Ai descriptions util (#25736)
* Edits

* final files

* remove tab

* fix more tabs

* fixed steps

* fix

* final fix

* Update src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/tutorials/okta-u2f.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/tutorials/vnc-client-in-browser.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/r2/tutorials/cloudflare-access.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/pages/how-to/deploy-a-wordpress-site.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/pages/migrations/migrating-from-netlify.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/reference-architecture/design-guides/network-vpn-migration.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/ssl/keyless-ssl/hardware-security-modules/ibm-cloud-hsm.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/turnstile/tutorials/excluding-turnstile-from-e2e-tests.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* update

---------

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

src/content/docs/dns/zone-setups/conversions/convert-secondary-to-partial.mdx, after:

---
title: Convert secondary setup to partial setup
pcx_content_type: tutorial
sidebar:
  order: 8
  label: Secondary to partial
description: >-
  If you initially set up incoming zone transfers (Cloudflare as secondary), you can later convert your zone to use a partial setup.
---

import { GlossaryTooltip, Details, Render } from "~/components";

If you initially set up [incoming zone transfers (Cloudflare as secondary)](/dns/zone-setups/zone-transfers/cloudflare-as-secondary/setup/), you can later convert your zone to use a <GlossaryTooltip term="partial setup">partial setup</GlossaryTooltip>.

<Render file="conversion-subdomain-setup-callout" product="dns" />

Follow the steps below to achieve this conversion.

## 1. Stop transferring the zone

<Render file="secondary-conversion-unlink" product="dns" />

## 2. Configure your authoritative DNS provider

1. (Optional) If you are also migrating to a new authoritative DNS provider, export a zone file from the previous provider and import it into the new one.
2. At your authoritative DNS provider, create `CNAME` records pointing to `{your-hostname}.cdn.cloudflare.net` for every hostname you wish to proxy through Cloudflare.

   <Details header="Example CNAME record at authoritative DNS provider">

   The `CNAME` record for `www.example.com` would be:

   ```txt
   www.example.com CNAME www.example.com.cdn.cloudflare.net
   ```

   </Details>

3. At your authoritative DNS provider, remove any previously existing `A`, `AAAA`, or `CNAME` records referencing the hostnames you want to proxy through Cloudflare. For these hostnames, leave only the records pointing to `{your-hostname}.cdn.cloudflare.net`.

## 3. Convert your Cloudflare zone

1. Back at your Cloudflare zone, confirm that you have all the `A`, `AAAA`, or `CNAME` [DNS records](/dns/manage-dns-records/how-to/create-dns-records/) needed for the hostnames you pointed to `{your-hostname}.cdn.cloudflare.net` in the previous step. You can also delete any DNS records that have a different type, as they will no longer resolve once you convert your zone to a partial setup.
2. Use the [Edit Zone endpoint](/api/resources/zones/methods/edit/) with `type` set to `partial` to convert the zone type. Existing DNS records will not be affected.
3. On [**DNS** > **Records**](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/:zone/dns/records), get the **Verification TXT Record** and add it at your authoritative DNS provider.

   <Details header="Example verification record">

   A verification record for `sub.example.com` might be:

   | Type | Name                                | Content             |
   | ---- | ----------------------------------- | ------------------- |
   | TXT  | `cloudflare-verify.sub.example.com` | 966215192-518620144 |

   If your authoritative DNS provider automatically appends DNS record `name` fields with your domain, make sure to only insert `cloudflare-verify` as the record name. Otherwise, it may result in an incorrect record name, such as `cloudflare-verify.sub.example.com.sub.example.com`.

   After creating the record, you can use this [Dig Web Interface link](https://digwebinterface.com/?type=TXT&ns=auth&nameservers=) to search (`dig`) for `cloudflare-verify.<YOUR DOMAIN>` and validate if it is working.

   </Details>

   :::note
   The verification record must remain in place for as long as you want your partial setup to be active on Cloudflare.
   :::

## 4. Update nameservers

At your domain registrar (or parent zone), [update the nameservers](/dns/nameservers/update-nameservers/). In a partial (CNAME) setup, only the nameservers of your external DNS provider should be listed.

    - Remove any `secondary.cloudflare.com` nameservers if you used to have them.
    - If you are also migrating to a new authoritative DNS provider, add your new nameservers.
