src/content/docs/dns/zone-setups/conversions/convert-full-to-secondary.mdx, before:

---
title: Convert full setup to secondary setup
pcx_content_type: tutorial
sidebar:
  order: 2
  label: Full to secondary
---

import { Tabs, TabItem, Render, GlossaryTooltip } from "~/components";

If you initially configured a [full setup](/dns/zone-setups/full-setup/), you can later convert your zone to use [incoming zone transfers (Cloudflare as secondary)](/dns/zone-setups/zone-transfers/cloudflare-as-secondary/setup/).

<Render file="conversion-subdomain-setup-callout" product="dns" />

Follow the steps below to achieve this conversion.

## 1. Prepare DNS records

1. [Export a zone file](/dns/manage-dns-records/how-to/import-and-export/#export-records).
2. Import the zone file into your new primary DNS provider.
3. At your Cloudflare zone, use the [Update DNS Settings](/api/resources/dns/subresources/settings/subresources/zone/methods/edit/) endpoint to enable [secondary DNS overrides](/dns/zone-setups/zone-transfers/cloudflare-as-secondary/proxy-traffic/). Set the value for `secondary_overrides` to `true`.

   :::note
   Enabling secondary DNS overrides is necessary in case you have DNS records that you wish to keep <GlossaryTooltip term="proxy status" link="/dns/proxy-status/">proxied</GlossaryTooltip>.
   :::

## 2. Prepare the zone transfers

1. Make adjustments to DNSSEC according to your option for [DNSSEC with secondary setup](/dns/zone-setups/zone-transfers/cloudflare-as-secondary/dnssec-for-secondary/).
2. (Optional) Create a Transaction Signature (TSIG).

   <Render file="tsig-definition" product="dns" />

   <Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

   <Render file="tsig-create-dash" product="dns" />

   </TabItem> <TabItem label="API">

   <Render file="tsig-create-api" product="dns" />

   </TabItem> </Tabs>

3. Create a peer server.

   <Render file="create-peer-server" product="dns" />

## 3. Convert the zone and initiate zone transfers

1. Use the [Edit Zone endpoint](/api/resources/zones/methods/edit/) with `type` set to `secondary` to convert the zone type. The existing records will remain in place.
2. Go to **DNS** > **Settings** > **DNS Zone Transfers** and select **Manage linked peers**.
3. Link the peer server you created in the previous steps and select **Save**.
4. On **DNS** > **Settings**, select **Initiate zone transfer**.
5. Confirm the DNS records are transferring as expected.
6. Go to [**DNS** > **Records**](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/:zone/dns/records) and take note of your new **Cloudflare Nameservers**.
7. At your domain registrar (or parent zone), [update your nameservers](/dns/nameservers/update-nameservers/) to include the `secondary.cloudflare.com` nameservers.

Commit message:

Ai descriptions util (#25736)
* Edits

* final files

* remove tab

* fix more tabs

* fixed steps

* fix

* final fix

* Update src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/tutorials/okta-u2f.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/tutorials/vnc-client-in-browser.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/r2/tutorials/cloudflare-access.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/pages/how-to/deploy-a-wordpress-site.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/pages/migrations/migrating-from-netlify.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/reference-architecture/design-guides/network-vpn-migration.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/ssl/keyless-ssl/hardware-security-modules/ibm-cloud-hsm.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/turnstile/tutorials/excluding-turnstile-from-e2e-tests.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* update

---------

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

src/content/docs/dns/zone-setups/conversions/convert-full-to-secondary.mdx, after:

---
title: Convert full setup to secondary setup
pcx_content_type: tutorial
sidebar:
  order: 2
  label: Full to secondary
description: >-
  If you initially configured a full setup you can later convert your zone to use incoming zone transfers (Cloudflare as secondary).
---

import { Tabs, TabItem, Render, GlossaryTooltip } from "~/components";

If you initially configured a [full setup](/dns/zone-setups/full-setup/), you can later convert your zone to use [incoming zone transfers (Cloudflare as secondary)](/dns/zone-setups/zone-transfers/cloudflare-as-secondary/setup/).

<Render file="conversion-subdomain-setup-callout" product="dns" />

Follow the steps below to achieve this conversion.

## 1. Prepare DNS records

1. [Export a zone file](/dns/manage-dns-records/how-to/import-and-export/#export-records).
2. Import the zone file into your new primary DNS provider.
3. At your Cloudflare zone, use the [Update DNS Settings](/api/resources/dns/subresources/settings/subresources/zone/methods/edit/) endpoint to enable [secondary DNS overrides](/dns/zone-setups/zone-transfers/cloudflare-as-secondary/proxy-traffic/). Set the value for `secondary_overrides` to `true`.

   :::note
   Enabling secondary DNS overrides is necessary in case you have DNS records that you wish to keep <GlossaryTooltip term="proxy status" link="/dns/proxy-status/">proxied</GlossaryTooltip>.
   :::

## 2. Prepare the zone transfers

1. Make adjustments to DNSSEC according to your option for [DNSSEC with secondary setup](/dns/zone-setups/zone-transfers/cloudflare-as-secondary/dnssec-for-secondary/).
2. (Optional) Create a Transaction Signature (TSIG).

   <Render file="tsig-definition" product="dns" />

   <Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

   <Render file="tsig-create-dash" product="dns" />

   </TabItem> <TabItem label="API">

   <Render file="tsig-create-api" product="dns" />

   </TabItem> </Tabs>

3. Create a peer server.

   <Render file="create-peer-server" product="dns" />

## 3. Convert the zone and initiate zone transfers

1. Use the [Edit Zone endpoint](/api/resources/zones/methods/edit/) with `type` set to `secondary` to convert the zone type. The existing records will remain in place.
2. Go to **DNS** > **Settings** > **DNS Zone Transfers** and select **Manage linked peers**.
3. Link the peer server you created in the previous steps and select **Save**.
4. On **DNS** > **Settings**, select **Initiate zone transfer**.
5. Confirm the DNS records are transferring as expected.
6. Go to [**DNS** > **Records**](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/:zone/dns/records) and take note of your new **Cloudflare Nameservers**.
7. At your domain registrar (or parent zone), [update your nameservers](/dns/nameservers/update-nameservers/) to include the `secondary.cloudflare.com` nameservers.
