src/content/docs/stream/stream-live/custom-domains.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Add custom ingest domains
learning_center:
  title: What is live streaming?
  link: https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/video/what-is-live-streaming/
sidebar:
  order: 3

---
import { DashButton } from "~/components";

With custom ingest domains, you can configure your RTMPS feeds to use an ingest URL that you specify instead of using `live.cloudflare.com.`

1. In the Cloudflare dashboard, go to the **Live inputs** page.

   <DashButton url="/?to=/:account/stream/inputs" />

2. Select **Settings**, above the list. The **Custom Input Domains** page displays.
3. Under **Domain**, add your domain and select **Add domain**.
4. At your DNS provider, add a CNAME record that points to `live.cloudflare.com`. If your DNS provider is Cloudflare, this step is done automatically.

If you are using Cloudflare for DNS, ensure the [**Proxy status**](/dns/proxy-status/) of your ingest domain is **DNS only** (grey-clouded).

## Delete a custom domain

1. From the **Custom Input Domains** page under **Hostnames**, locate the domain.
2. Select the menu icon under **Action**. Select **Delete**.

Commit message:

[Stream] Quick references and clarifications (#27613)
* [Stream] Update ingest domains info re zone holds. ref CUSTESC-60093

* [Stream] Clarify the two different webhooks systems. Ref #27546

* Apply suggestions from code review

---------

Co-authored-by: ToriLindsay <tgalatro@cloudflare.com>

src/content/docs/stream/stream-live/custom-domains.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Add custom ingest domains
learning_center:
  title: What is live streaming?
  link: https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/video/what-is-live-streaming/
sidebar:
  order: 3

---
import { DashButton } from "~/components";

With custom ingest domains, you can configure your RTMPS feeds to use an ingest URL that you specify instead of using `live.cloudflare.com.`

:::note

Custom Ingest Domains cannot be configured for domains with [zone holds](/fundamentals/account/account-security/zone-holds/) enabled.

:::


1. In the Cloudflare dashboard, go to the **Live inputs** page.

   <DashButton url="/?to=/:account/stream/inputs" />

2. Select **Settings**, above the list. The **Custom Input Domains** page displays.
3. Under **Domain**, add your domain and select **Add domain**.
4. At your DNS provider, add a CNAME record that points to `live.cloudflare.com`. If your DNS provider is Cloudflare, this step is done automatically.

If you are using Cloudflare for DNS, ensure the [**Proxy status**](/dns/proxy-status/) of your ingest domain is **DNS only** (grey-clouded).

## Delete a custom domain

1. From the **Custom Input Domains** page under **Hostnames**, locate the domain.
2. Select the menu icon under **Action**. Select **Delete**.
