src/content/docs/learning-paths/secure-internet-traffic/build-http-policies/recommended-http-policies.mdx, before:

---
title: Recommended HTTP policies
pcx_content_type: learning-unit
sidebar:
  order: 5
---

import { Render, Tabs, TabItem, APIRequest } from "~/components";

We recommend you add the following HTTP policies to build an Internet and SaaS app security strategy for your organization.

## All-HTTP-Application-InspectBypass

Bypass HTTP inspection for applications that use embedded certificates. This will help avoid any certificate pinning errors that may arise from an initial rollout.

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

<Render
	file="gateway/policies/do-not-inspect-applications"
	product="cloudflare-one"
/>

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "All-HTTP-Application-InspectBypass",
		description:
			"Bypass HTTP inspection for applications that use embedded certificates",
		precedence: 0,
		enabled: true,
		action: "block",
		filters: ["http"],
		traffic: "any(app.type.ids[*] in {16})",
	}}
/>

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Terraform">

```tf
resource "cloudflare_zero_trust_gateway_policy" "all_http_application_inspect_bypass" {
  account_id  = var.cloudflare_account_id
  name        = "All-HTTP-Application-InspectBypass"
  description = "Bypass HTTP inspection for applications that use embedded certificates"
  precedence  = 0
  enabled     = true
  action      = "block"
  filters     = ["http"]
  traffic     = "any(app.type.ids[*] in {16})"
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Android-HTTP-Application-InspectionBypass

Bypass HTTPS inspection for Android applications (such as Google Drive) that use certificate pinning, which is incompatible with Gateway inspection.

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector                     | Operator | Value                             | Logic | Action         |
| ---------------------------- | -------- | --------------------------------- | ----- | -------------- |
| Application                  | in       | _Google Drive_                    | And   | Do Not Inspect |
| Passed Device Posture Checks | in       | _OS Version Android (OS version)_ |       |                |

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "Android-HTTP-Application-InspectionBypass",
		description:
			"Bypass HTTPS inspection for Android applications with certificate pinning",
		precedence: 10,
		enabled: true,
		action: "off",
		filters: ["http"],
		traffic: "any(app.ids[] in {554})",
		device_posture:
			'any(device_posture.checks.passed[] in {"<ANDROID_VERSION_POSTURE_CHECK_UUID >"})',
	}}
/>

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Terraform">

```tf
resource "cloudflare_zero_trust_gateway_policy" "android_http_application_inspection_bypass" {
  account_id  = var.cloudflare_account_id
  name        = "Android-HTTP-Application-InspectionBypass"
  description = "Bypass HTTPS inspection for Android applications with certificate pinning"
  precedence  = 10
  enabled     = true
  action      = "off"
  filters     = ["http"]
  traffic     = "any(app.ids[*] in {554})"
  device_posture = "any(device_posture.checks.passed[*] in {\"${"$"}{cloudflare_zero_trust_list.android_version_posture_check.id}\"})"
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## All-HTTP-Domain-Inspection-Bypass

Bypass HTTP inspection for a custom list of domains identified as incompatible with TLS inspection.

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector | Operator | Value                    | Logic | Action         |
| -------- | -------- | ------------------------ | ----- | -------------- |
| Domain   | in list  | _DomainInspectionBypass_ | Or    | Do Not Inspect |
| Domain   | in list  | _Known Domains_          |       |                |

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "All-HTTP-Domain-Inspection-Bypass",
		description:
			"Bypass HTTP inspection for a custom list of domains identified as incompatible with TLS inspection",
		precedence: 20,
		enabled: true,
		action: "off",
		filters: ["http"],
		traffic:
			"any(http.conn.domains[] in $<DOMAIN_INSPECTION_BYPASS_LIST_UUID>) or any(http.conn.domains[] in $<KNOWN_DOMAINS_LIST_UUID>)",
	}}
/>

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Terraform">

```tf
resource "cloudflare_zero_trust_gateway_policy" "android_http_application_inspection_bypass" {
  account_id  = var.cloudflare_account_id
  name        = "All-HTTP-Domain-Inspection-Bypass"
  description = "Bypass HTTP inspection for a custom list of domains identified as incompatible with TLS inspection"
  precedence  = 20
  enabled     = true
  action      = "off"
  filters     = ["http"]
  traffic     = "any(http.conn.domains[*] in ${"$"}{cloudflare_zero_trust_list.domain_inspection_bypass_list.id}) or any(http.conn.domains[*] in ${"$"}{cloudflare_zero_trust_list.known_domains_list.id})"
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## All-HTTP-SecurityRisks-Blocklist

<Render
	file="zero-trust/blocklist-security-categories"
	product="learning-paths"
/>

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector            | Operator | Value                | Action |
| ------------------- | -------- | -------------------- | ------ |
| Security Categories | in       | _All security risks_ | Block  |

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "All-HTTP-SecurityRisks-Blocklist",
		description:
			"Block security categories based on Cloudflare's threat intelligence",
		precedence: 30,
		enabled: true,
		action: "block",
		filters: ["http"],
		traffic:
			"any(http.request.uri.security_category[*] in {68 178 80 83 176 175 117 131 134 151 153})",
	}}
/>

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Terraform">

```tf
resource "cloudflare_zero_trust_gateway_policy" "all_http_security_risks_blocklist" {
  account_id  = var.cloudflare_account_id
  name        = "All-HTTP-SecurityRisks-Blocklist"
  description = "Block security categories based on Cloudflare's threat intelligence"
  precedence  = 30
  enabled     = true
  action      = "block"
  filters     = ["http"]
  traffic     = "any(http.request.uri.security_category[*] in {68 178 80 83 176 175 117 131 134 151 153})"
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## All-HTTP-ContentCategories-Blocklist

<Render
	file="zero-trust/content-categories-description"
	product="learning-paths"
	params={{ policyType: "HTTP" }}
/>

<Render
	file="gateway/policies/dash-plus-api/http/block-content-categories"
	product="cloudflare-one"
/>

## All-HTTP-DomainHost-Blocklist

<Render
	file="zero-trust/blocklist-domain-host"
	product="learning-paths"
	params={{ blocklistPolicyType: "HTTP" }}
/>

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector | Operator      | Value              | Logic | Action |
| -------- | ------------- | ------------------ | ----- | ------ |
| Domain   | in list       | _Domain Blocklist_ | Or    | Block  |
| Host     | in list       | _Host Blocklist_   | Or    |        |
| Host     | matches regex | `.*example\.com`   |       |        |

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "All-HTTP-DomainHost-Blocklist",
		description:
			"Block specific domains or hosts that are malicious or pose a threat to your organization",
		precedence: 50,
		enabled: true,
		action: "block",
		filters: ["http"],
		traffic:
			'any(http.request.domains[*] in $<DOMAIN_BLOCKLIST_UUID>) or http.request.host in $<HOST_BLOCKLIST_UUID> or http.request.host matches ".*example\.com"',
	}}
/>

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Terraform">

```tf
resource "cloudflare_zero_trust_gateway_policy" "all_http_domainhost_blocklist" {
  account_id  = var.cloudflare_account_id
  name        = "All-HTTP-DomainHost-Blocklist"
  description = "Block specific domains or hosts that are malicious or pose a threat to your organization"
  precedence  = 50
  enabled     = true
  action      = "block"
  filters     = ["http"]
  traffic     = "any(http.request.domains[*] in ${"$"}{cloudflare_zero_trust_list.domain_blocklist.id}) or http.request.host in ${"$"}{cloudflare_zero_trust_list.host_blocklist.id} or http.request.host matches \".*example\\.com\""
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## All-HTTP-Application-Blocklist

<Render file="zero-trust/blocklist-application" product="learning-paths" />

<Render
	file="gateway/policies/dash-plus-api/http/block-applications"
	product="cloudflare-one"
/>

## PrivilegedUsers-HTTP-Any-Isolate

Isolate traffic for privileged users who regularly access critical systems or execute actions such as threat analysis and malware testing.

Security teams often need to perform threat analysis or malware testing that could trigger malware detection. Likewise, privileged users could be the target of attackers trying to gain access to critical systems.

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector         | Operator | Value              | Action  |
| ---------------- | -------- | ------------------ | ------- |
| User Group Names | in       | _Privileged Users_ | Isolate |

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "PrivilegedUsers-HTTP-Any-Isolate",
		description:
			"Isolate traffic for privileged users who regularly access critical or testing systems",
		precedence: 70,
		enabled: true,
		action: "isolate",
		filters: ["http"],
		identity: 'any(identity.groups.name[*] in {"Privileged Users"})',
	}}
/>

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Terraform">

```tf
resource "cloudflare_zero_trust_gateway_policy" "privileged_users_http_any_isolate" {
  account_id  = var.cloudflare_account_id
  name        = "PrivilegedUsers-HTTP-Any-Isolate"
  description = "Isolate traffic for privileged users who regularly access critical or testing systems"
  precedence  = 70
  enabled     = true
  action      = "isolate"
  filters     = ["http"]
  identity    = "any(identity.groups.name[*] in {\"Privileged Users\"})"
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Quarantined-Users-HTTP-Restricted-Access

<Render file="zero-trust/blocklist-restricted-users" product="learning-paths" />

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector         | Operator    | Value                           | Logic | Action |
| ---------------- | ----------- | ------------------------------- | ----- | ------ |
| Destination IP   | not in list | _Quarantined-Users-IPAllowlist_ | And   | Block  |
| User Group Names | in          | _Quarantined Users_             |       |        |

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "Quarantined-Users-HTTP-Restricted-Access",
		description:
			"Restrict access for users included in an identity provider (IdP) user group for risky users",
		precedence: 80,
		enabled: true,
		action: "block",
		filters: ["http"],
		traffic:
			"not(any(http.conn.dst_ip[] in $<QUARANTINED_USERS_IP_ALLOWLIST_UUID>))",
		identity: 'any(identity.groups.name[] in {"Quarantined Users"})',
	}}
/>

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Terraform">

```tf
resource "cloudflare_zero_trust_gateway_policy" "quarantined_users_http_restricted_access" {
  account_id  = var.cloudflare_account_id
  name        = "Quarantined-Users-HTTP-Restricted-Access"
  description = "Restrict access for users included in an identity provider (IdP) user group for risky users"
  precedence  = 80
  enabled     = true
  action      = "block"
  filters     = ["http"]
  traffic     = "not(any(http.conn.dst_ip[*] in ${"$"}{cloudflare_zero_trust_list.quarantined_users_ip_allowlist.id}))"
  identity    = "any(identity.groups.name[*] in {\"Quarantined Users\"})"
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## All-HTTP-Domain-Isolate

Isolate high risk domains or create a custom list of known risky domains to avoid data exfiltration or malware infection. Ideally, your incident response teams can update the blocklist with an [API automation](/security-center/intel-apis/) to provide real-time threat protection.

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector           | Operator | Value                               | Logic | Action  |
| ------------------ | -------- | ----------------------------------- | ----- | ------- |
| Content Categories | in       | _New Domains_, _Newly Seen Domains_ | Or    | Isolate |
| Domain             | in list  | _Domain Isolation_                  |       |         |

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "All-HTTP-Domain-Isolate",
		description:
			"Isolate high risk domains or create a custom list of known risky domains to avoid data exfiltration or malware infection",
		precedence: 90,
		enabled: true,
		action: "isolate",
		filters: ["http"],
		traffic:
			"any(http.request.uri.content_category[] in {169 177}) or any(http.request.domains[] in $<DOMAIN_ISOLATE_LIST_UUID>)",
	}}
/>

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Terraform">

```tf
resource "cloudflare_zero_trust_gateway_policy" "all_http_domain_isolate" {
  account_id  = var.cloudflare_account_id
  name        = "All-HTTP-Domain-Isolate"
  description = "Isolate high risk domains or create a custom list of known risky domains to avoid data exfiltration or malware infection"
  precedence  = 90
  enabled     = true
  action      = "isolate"
  filters     = ["http"]
  traffic     = "any(http.request.uri.content_category[*] in {169 177}) or any(http.request.domains[*] in ${"$"}{cloudflare_zero_trust_list.domain_isolate_list.id})"
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

[Gateway] Link between common policies and learning path (#26875)
Co-authored-by: Max Phillips <mphillips@cloudflare.com>

src/content/docs/learning-paths/secure-internet-traffic/build-http-policies/recommended-http-policies.mdx, after:

---
title: Recommended HTTP policies
pcx_content_type: learning-unit
sidebar:
  order: 5
---

import { Render, Tabs, TabItem, APIRequest } from "~/components";

We recommend you add the following HTTP policies to build an Internet and SaaS app security strategy for your organization.

For additional commonly used HTTP policy examples, refer to [Common HTTP policies](/cloudflare-one/traffic-policies/http-policies/common-policies/). For more information on building HTTP policies, refer to [HTTP policies](/cloudflare-one/traffic-policies/http-policies/).

## All-HTTP-Application-InspectBypass

Bypass HTTP inspection for applications that use embedded certificates. This will help avoid any certificate pinning errors that may arise from an initial rollout.

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

<Render
	file="gateway/policies/do-not-inspect-applications"
	product="cloudflare-one"
/>

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "All-HTTP-Application-InspectBypass",
		description:
			"Bypass HTTP inspection for applications that use embedded certificates",
		precedence: 0,
		enabled: true,
		action: "block",
		filters: ["http"],
		traffic: "any(app.type.ids[*] in {16})",
	}}
/>

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Terraform">

```tf
resource "cloudflare_zero_trust_gateway_policy" "all_http_application_inspect_bypass" {
  account_id  = var.cloudflare_account_id
  name        = "All-HTTP-Application-InspectBypass"
  description = "Bypass HTTP inspection for applications that use embedded certificates"
  precedence  = 0
  enabled     = true
  action      = "block"
  filters     = ["http"]
  traffic     = "any(app.type.ids[*] in {16})"
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Android-HTTP-Application-InspectionBypass

Bypass HTTPS inspection for Android applications (such as Google Drive) that use certificate pinning, which is incompatible with Gateway inspection.

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector                     | Operator | Value                             | Logic | Action         |
| ---------------------------- | -------- | --------------------------------- | ----- | -------------- |
| Application                  | in       | _Google Drive_                    | And   | Do Not Inspect |
| Passed Device Posture Checks | in       | _OS Version Android (OS version)_ |       |                |

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "Android-HTTP-Application-InspectionBypass",
		description:
			"Bypass HTTPS inspection for Android applications with certificate pinning",
		precedence: 10,
		enabled: true,
		action: "off",
		filters: ["http"],
		traffic: "any(app.ids[] in {554})",
		device_posture:
			'any(device_posture.checks.passed[] in {"<ANDROID_VERSION_POSTURE_CHECK_UUID >"})',
	}}
/>

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Terraform">

```tf
resource "cloudflare_zero_trust_gateway_policy" "android_http_application_inspection_bypass" {
  account_id  = var.cloudflare_account_id
  name        = "Android-HTTP-Application-InspectionBypass"
  description = "Bypass HTTPS inspection for Android applications with certificate pinning"
  precedence  = 10
  enabled     = true
  action      = "off"
  filters     = ["http"]
  traffic     = "any(app.ids[*] in {554})"
  device_posture = "any(device_posture.checks.passed[*] in {\"${"$"}{cloudflare_zero_trust_list.android_version_posture_check.id}\"})"
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## All-HTTP-Domain-Inspection-Bypass

Bypass HTTP inspection for a custom list of domains identified as incompatible with TLS inspection.

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector | Operator | Value                    | Logic | Action         |
| -------- | -------- | ------------------------ | ----- | -------------- |
| Domain   | in list  | _DomainInspectionBypass_ | Or    | Do Not Inspect |
| Domain   | in list  | _Known Domains_          |       |                |

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "All-HTTP-Domain-Inspection-Bypass",
		description:
			"Bypass HTTP inspection for a custom list of domains identified as incompatible with TLS inspection",
		precedence: 20,
		enabled: true,
		action: "off",
		filters: ["http"],
		traffic:
			"any(http.conn.domains[] in $<DOMAIN_INSPECTION_BYPASS_LIST_UUID>) or any(http.conn.domains[] in $<KNOWN_DOMAINS_LIST_UUID>)",
	}}
/>

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Terraform">

```tf
resource "cloudflare_zero_trust_gateway_policy" "android_http_application_inspection_bypass" {
  account_id  = var.cloudflare_account_id
  name        = "All-HTTP-Domain-Inspection-Bypass"
  description = "Bypass HTTP inspection for a custom list of domains identified as incompatible with TLS inspection"
  precedence  = 20
  enabled     = true
  action      = "off"
  filters     = ["http"]
  traffic     = "any(http.conn.domains[*] in ${"$"}{cloudflare_zero_trust_list.domain_inspection_bypass_list.id}) or any(http.conn.domains[*] in ${"$"}{cloudflare_zero_trust_list.known_domains_list.id})"
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## All-HTTP-SecurityRisks-Blocklist

<Render
	file="zero-trust/blocklist-security-categories"
	product="learning-paths"
/>

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector            | Operator | Value                | Action |
| ------------------- | -------- | -------------------- | ------ |
| Security Categories | in       | _All security risks_ | Block  |

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "All-HTTP-SecurityRisks-Blocklist",
		description:
			"Block security categories based on Cloudflare's threat intelligence",
		precedence: 30,
		enabled: true,
		action: "block",
		filters: ["http"],
		traffic:
			"any(http.request.uri.security_category[*] in {68 178 80 83 176 175 117 131 134 151 153})",
	}}
/>

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Terraform">

```tf
resource "cloudflare_zero_trust_gateway_policy" "all_http_security_risks_blocklist" {
  account_id  = var.cloudflare_account_id
  name        = "All-HTTP-SecurityRisks-Blocklist"
  description = "Block security categories based on Cloudflare's threat intelligence"
  precedence  = 30
  enabled     = true
  action      = "block"
  filters     = ["http"]
  traffic     = "any(http.request.uri.security_category[*] in {68 178 80 83 176 175 117 131 134 151 153})"
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## All-HTTP-ContentCategories-Blocklist

<Render
	file="zero-trust/content-categories-description"
	product="learning-paths"
	params={{ policyType: "HTTP" }}
/>

<Render
	file="gateway/policies/dash-plus-api/http/block-content-categories"
	product="cloudflare-one"
/>

## All-HTTP-DomainHost-Blocklist

<Render
	file="zero-trust/blocklist-domain-host"
	product="learning-paths"
	params={{ blocklistPolicyType: "HTTP" }}
/>

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector | Operator      | Value              | Logic | Action |
| -------- | ------------- | ------------------ | ----- | ------ |
| Domain   | in list       | _Domain Blocklist_ | Or    | Block  |
| Host     | in list       | _Host Blocklist_   | Or    |        |
| Host     | matches regex | `.*example\.com`   |       |        |

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "All-HTTP-DomainHost-Blocklist",
		description:
			"Block specific domains or hosts that are malicious or pose a threat to your organization",
		precedence: 50,
		enabled: true,
		action: "block",
		filters: ["http"],
		traffic:
			'any(http.request.domains[*] in $<DOMAIN_BLOCKLIST_UUID>) or http.request.host in $<HOST_BLOCKLIST_UUID> or http.request.host matches ".*example\.com"',
	}}
/>

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Terraform">

```tf
resource "cloudflare_zero_trust_gateway_policy" "all_http_domainhost_blocklist" {
  account_id  = var.cloudflare_account_id
  name        = "All-HTTP-DomainHost-Blocklist"
  description = "Block specific domains or hosts that are malicious or pose a threat to your organization"
  precedence  = 50
  enabled     = true
  action      = "block"
  filters     = ["http"]
  traffic     = "any(http.request.domains[*] in ${"$"}{cloudflare_zero_trust_list.domain_blocklist.id}) or http.request.host in ${"$"}{cloudflare_zero_trust_list.host_blocklist.id} or http.request.host matches \".*example\\.com\""
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## All-HTTP-Application-Blocklist

<Render file="zero-trust/blocklist-application" product="learning-paths" />

<Render
	file="gateway/policies/dash-plus-api/http/block-applications"
	product="cloudflare-one"
/>

## PrivilegedUsers-HTTP-Any-Isolate

Isolate traffic for privileged users who regularly access critical systems or execute actions such as threat analysis and malware testing.

Security teams often need to perform threat analysis or malware testing that could trigger malware detection. Likewise, privileged users could be the target of attackers trying to gain access to critical systems.

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector         | Operator | Value              | Action  |
| ---------------- | -------- | ------------------ | ------- |
| User Group Names | in       | _Privileged Users_ | Isolate |

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "PrivilegedUsers-HTTP-Any-Isolate",
		description:
			"Isolate traffic for privileged users who regularly access critical or testing systems",
		precedence: 70,
		enabled: true,
		action: "isolate",
		filters: ["http"],
		identity: 'any(identity.groups.name[*] in {"Privileged Users"})',
	}}
/>

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Terraform">

```tf
resource "cloudflare_zero_trust_gateway_policy" "privileged_users_http_any_isolate" {
  account_id  = var.cloudflare_account_id
  name        = "PrivilegedUsers-HTTP-Any-Isolate"
  description = "Isolate traffic for privileged users who regularly access critical or testing systems"
  precedence  = 70
  enabled     = true
  action      = "isolate"
  filters     = ["http"]
  identity    = "any(identity.groups.name[*] in {\"Privileged Users\"})"
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Quarantined-Users-HTTP-Restricted-Access

<Render file="zero-trust/blocklist-restricted-users" product="learning-paths" />

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector         | Operator    | Value                           | Logic | Action |
| ---------------- | ----------- | ------------------------------- | ----- | ------ |
| Destination IP   | not in list | _Quarantined-Users-IPAllowlist_ | And   | Block  |
| User Group Names | in          | _Quarantined Users_             |       |        |

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "Quarantined-Users-HTTP-Restricted-Access",
		description:
			"Restrict access for users included in an identity provider (IdP) user group for risky users",
		precedence: 80,
		enabled: true,
		action: "block",
		filters: ["http"],
		traffic:
			"not(any(http.conn.dst_ip[] in $<QUARANTINED_USERS_IP_ALLOWLIST_UUID>))",
		identity: 'any(identity.groups.name[] in {"Quarantined Users"})',
	}}
/>

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Terraform">

```tf
resource "cloudflare_zero_trust_gateway_policy" "quarantined_users_http_restricted_access" {
  account_id  = var.cloudflare_account_id
  name        = "Quarantined-Users-HTTP-Restricted-Access"
  description = "Restrict access for users included in an identity provider (IdP) user group for risky users"
  precedence  = 80
  enabled     = true
  action      = "block"
  filters     = ["http"]
  traffic     = "not(any(http.conn.dst_ip[*] in ${"$"}{cloudflare_zero_trust_list.quarantined_users_ip_allowlist.id}))"
  identity    = "any(identity.groups.name[*] in {\"Quarantined Users\"})"
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## All-HTTP-Domain-Isolate

Isolate high risk domains or create a custom list of known risky domains to avoid data exfiltration or malware infection. Ideally, your incident response teams can update the blocklist with an [API automation](/security-center/intel-apis/) to provide real-time threat protection.

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector           | Operator | Value                               | Logic | Action  |
| ------------------ | -------- | ----------------------------------- | ----- | ------- |
| Content Categories | in       | _New Domains_, _Newly Seen Domains_ | Or    | Isolate |
| Domain             | in list  | _Domain Isolation_                  |       |         |

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "All-HTTP-Domain-Isolate",
		description:
			"Isolate high risk domains or create a custom list of known risky domains to avoid data exfiltration or malware infection",
		precedence: 90,
		enabled: true,
		action: "isolate",
		filters: ["http"],
		traffic:
			"any(http.request.uri.content_category[] in {169 177}) or any(http.request.domains[] in $<DOMAIN_ISOLATE_LIST_UUID>)",
	}}
/>

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Terraform">

```tf
resource "cloudflare_zero_trust_gateway_policy" "all_http_domain_isolate" {
  account_id  = var.cloudflare_account_id
  name        = "All-HTTP-Domain-Isolate"
  description = "Isolate high risk domains or create a custom list of known risky domains to avoid data exfiltration or malware infection"
  precedence  = 90
  enabled     = true
  action      = "isolate"
  filters     = ["http"]
  traffic     = "any(http.request.uri.content_category[*] in {169 177}) or any(http.request.domains[*] in ${"$"}{cloudflare_zero_trust_list.domain_isolate_list.id})"
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>
