src/content/docs/workers/tutorials/postgres.mdx, before:

---
reviewed: 2025-07-01
difficulty: Beginner
pcx_content_type: tutorial
title: Connect to a PostgreSQL database with Cloudflare Workers
products:
  - Hyperdrive
tags:
  - PostgreSQL
  - TypeScript
  - SQL
---

import { Render, PackageManagers, WranglerConfig } from "~/components";

In this tutorial, you will learn how to create a Cloudflare Workers application and connect it to a PostgreSQL database using [TCP Sockets](/workers/runtime-apis/tcp-sockets/) and [Hyperdrive](/hyperdrive/). The Workers application you create in this tutorial will interact with a product database inside of PostgreSQL.

## Prerequisites

To continue:

1. Sign up for a [Cloudflare account](https://dash.cloudflare.com/sign-up/workers-and-pages) if you have not already.
2. Install [`npm`](https://docs.npmjs.com/getting-started).
3. Install [`Node.js`](https://nodejs.org/en/). Use a Node version manager like [Volta](https://volta.sh/) or [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) to avoid permission issues and change Node.js versions. [Wrangler](/workers/wrangler/install-and-update/) requires a Node version of `16.17.0` or later.
4. Make sure you have access to a PostgreSQL database.

## 1. Create a Worker application

First, use the [`create-cloudflare` CLI](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-sdk/tree/main/packages/create-cloudflare) to create a new Worker application. To do this, open a terminal window and run the following command:

<PackageManagers
	type="create"
	pkg="cloudflare@latest"
	args={"postgres-tutorial"}
/>

This will prompt you to install the [`create-cloudflare`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/create-cloudflare) package and lead you through a setup wizard.

<Render
	file="c3-post-run-steps"
	product="workers"
	params={{
		category: "hello-world",
		type: "Worker only",
		lang: "TypeScript",
	}}
/>

If you choose to deploy, you will be asked to authenticate (if not logged in already), and your project will be deployed. If you deploy, you can still modify your Worker code and deploy again at the end of this tutorial.

Now, move into the newly created directory:

```sh
cd postgres-tutorial
```

### Enable Node.js compatibility

[Node.js compatibility](/workers/runtime-apis/nodejs/) is required for database drivers, including Postgres.js, and needs to be configured for your Workers project.

<Render file="nodejs_compat" product="workers" />

## 2. Add the PostgreSQL connection library

To connect to a PostgreSQL database, you will need the `pg` library. In your Worker application directory, run the following command to install the library:

<PackageManagers pkg="pg" />

Next, install the TypeScript types for the `pg` library to enable type checking and autocompletion in your TypeScript code:

<PackageManagers pkg="@types/pg" dev />

:::note
Make sure you are using `pg` (`node-postgres`) version `8.16.3` or higher.
:::

## 3. Configure the connection to the PostgreSQL database

Choose one of the two methods to connect to your PostgreSQL database:

1. [Use a connection string](#use-a-connection-string).
2. [Set explicit parameters](#set-explicit-parameters).

### Use a connection string

A connection string contains all the information needed to connect to a database. It is a URL that contains the following information:

```
postgresql://username:password@host:port/database
```

Replace `username`, `password`, `host`, `port`, and `database` with the appropriate values for your PostgreSQL database.

Set your connection string as a [secret](/workers/configuration/secrets/) so that it is not stored as plain text. Use [`wrangler secret put`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#secret) with the example variable name `DB_URL`:

```sh
npx wrangler secret put DB_URL
```

```sh output
➜  wrangler secret put DB_URL
-------------------------------------------------------
? Enter a secret value: › ********************
✨ Success! Uploaded secret DB_URL
```

Set your `DB_URL` secret locally in a `.dev.vars` file as documented in [Local Development with Secrets](/workers/configuration/secrets/).

```toml title='.dev.vars'
DB_URL="<ENTER YOUR POSTGRESQL CONNECTION STRING>"
```

### Set explicit parameters

Configure each database parameter as an [environment variable](/workers/configuration/environment-variables/) via the [Cloudflare dashboard](/workers/configuration/environment-variables/#add-environment-variables-via-the-dashboard) or in your Wrangler file. Refer to an example of aWrangler file configuration:

<WranglerConfig>

```toml
[vars]
DB_USERNAME = "postgres"
# Set your password by creating a secret so it is not stored as plain text
DB_HOST = "ep-aged-sound-175961.us-east-2.aws.neon.tech"
DB_PORT = 5432
DB_NAME = "productsdb"
```

</WranglerConfig>

To set your password as a [secret](/workers/configuration/secrets/) so that it is not stored as plain text, use [`wrangler secret put`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#secret). `DB_PASSWORD` is an example variable name for this secret to be accessed in your Worker:

```sh
npx wrangler secret put DB_PASSWORD
```

```sh output
-------------------------------------------------------
? Enter a secret value: › ********************
✨ Success! Uploaded secret DB_PASSWORD
```

## 4. Connect to the PostgreSQL database in the Worker

Open your Worker's main file (for example, `worker.ts`) and import the `Client` class from the `pg` library:

```typescript
import { Client } from "pg";
```

In the `fetch` event handler, connect to the PostgreSQL database using your chosen method, either the connection string or the explicit parameters.

### Use a connection string

```typescript
// create a new Client instance using the connection string
const sql = new Client({ connectionString: env.DB_URL });
// connect to the PostgreSQL database
await sql.connect();
```

### Set explicit parameters

```typescript
// create a new Client instance using explicit parameters
const sql = new Client({
	username: env.DB_USERNAME,
	password: env.DB_PASSWORD,
	host: env.DB_HOST,
	port: env.DB_PORT,
	database: env.DB_NAME,
	ssl: true, // Enable SSL for secure connections
});
// connect to the PostgreSQL database
await sql.connect();
```

## 5. Interact with the products database

To demonstrate how to interact with the products database, you will fetch data from the `products` table by querying the table when a request is received.

:::note

If you are following along in your own PostgreSQL instance, set up the `products` using the following SQL `CREATE TABLE` statement. This statement defines the columns and their respective data types for the `products` table:

```sql
CREATE TABLE products (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  name VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
  description TEXT,
  price DECIMAL(10, 2) NOT NULL
);
```

:::

Replace the existing code in your `worker.ts` file with the following code:

```typescript
import { Client } from "pg";

export default {
	async fetch(request, env, ctx): Promise<Response> {
		// Create a new Client instance using the connection string
		// or explicit parameters as shown in the previous steps.
		// Here, we are using the connection string method.
		const sql = new Client({
			connectionString: env.DB_URL,
		});
        // Connect to the PostgreSQL database
        await sql.connect();

        // Query the products table
        const result = await sql.query("SELECT * FROM products");

        // Return the result as JSON
        return new Response(JSON.stringify(result.rows), {
            headers: {
                "Content-Type": "application/json",
            },
        });
	},
} satisfies ExportedHandler<Env>;
```

This code establishes a connection to the PostgreSQL database within your Worker application and queries the `products` table, returning the results as a JSON response.

## 6. Deploy your Worker

Run the following command to deploy your Worker:

```sh
npx wrangler deploy
```

Your application is now live and accessible at `<YOUR_WORKER>.<YOUR_SUBDOMAIN>.workers.dev`.

After deploying, you can interact with your PostgreSQL products database using your Cloudflare Worker. Whenever a request is made to your Worker's URL, it will fetch data from the `products` table and return it as a JSON response. You can modify the query as needed to retrieve the desired data from your products database.

## 7. Insert a new row into the products database

To insert a new row into the `products` table, create a new API endpoint in your Worker that handles a `POST` request. When a `POST` request is received with a JSON payload, the Worker will insert a new row into the `products` table with the provided data.

Assume the `products` table has the following columns: `id`, `name`, `description`, and `price`.

Add the following code snippet inside the `fetch` event handler in your `worker.ts` file, before the existing query code:

```typescript {15-39}
import { Client } from "pg";

export default {
	async fetch(request, env, ctx): Promise<Response> {
		// Create a new Client instance using the connection string
		// or explicit parameters as shown in the previous steps.
		// Here, we are using the connection string method.
		const sql = new Client({
			connectionString: env.DB_URL,
		});
        // Connect to the PostgreSQL database
        await sql.connect();

        const url = new URL(request.url);
        if (request.method === "POST" && url.pathname === "/products") {
            // Parse the request's JSON payload
            const productData = (await request.json()) as {
                name: string;
                description: string;
                price: number;
            };

            const name = productData.name,
                description = productData.description,
                price = productData.price;

            // Insert the new product into the products table
            const insertResult = await sql.query(
                `INSERT INTO products(name, description, price) VALUES($1, $2, $3)
    RETURNING *`,
                [name, description, price],
            );

            // Return the inserted row as JSON
            return new Response(JSON.stringify(insertResult.rows), {
                headers: { "Content-Type": "application/json" },
            });
        }

        // Query the products table
        const result = await sql.query("SELECT * FROM products");

        // Return the result as JSON
        return new Response(JSON.stringify(result.rows), {
            headers: {
                "Content-Type": "application/json",
            },
        });
	},
} satisfies ExportedHandler<Env>;
```

This code snippet does the following:

1. Checks if the request is a `POST` request and the URL path is `/products`.
2. Parses the JSON payload from the request.
3. Constructs an `INSERT` SQL query using the provided product data.
4. Executes the query, inserting the new row into the `products` table.
5. Returns the inserted row as a JSON response.

Now, when you send a `POST` request to your Worker's URL with the `/products` path and a JSON payload, the Worker will insert a new row into the `products` table with the provided data. When a request to `/` is made, the Worker will return all products in the database.

After making these changes, deploy the Worker again by running:

```sh
npx wrangler deploy
```

You can now use your Cloudflare Worker to insert new rows into the `products` table. To test this functionality, send a `POST` request to your Worker's URL with the `/products` path, along with a JSON payload containing the new product data:

```json
{
	"name": "Sample Product",
	"description": "This is a sample product",
	"price": 19.99
}
```

You have successfully created a Cloudflare Worker that connects to a PostgreSQL database and handles fetching data and inserting new rows into a products table.

## 8. Use Hyperdrive to accelerate queries

Create a Hyperdrive configuration using the connection string for your PostgreSQL database.

```bash
npx wrangler hyperdrive create <NAME_OF_HYPERDRIVE_CONFIG> --connection-string="postgres://user:password@HOSTNAME_OR_IP_ADDRESS:PORT/database_name" --caching-disabled
```

This command outputs the Hyperdrive configuration `id` that will be used for your Hyperdrive [binding](/workers/runtime-apis/bindings/). Set up your binding by specifying the `id` in the Wrangler file.

<WranglerConfig>

```toml {7-9}
name = "hyperdrive-example"
main = "src/index.ts"
compatibility_date = "2024-08-21"
compatibility_flags = ["nodejs_compat"]

# Pasted from the output of `wrangler hyperdrive create <NAME_OF_HYPERDRIVE_CONFIG> --connection-string=[...]` above.
[[hyperdrive]]
binding = "HYPERDRIVE"
id = "<ID OF THE CREATED HYPERDRIVE CONFIGURATION>"
```

</WranglerConfig>

Create the types for your Hyperdrive binding using the following command:

```bash
npx wrangler types
```

Replace your existing connection string in your Worker code with the Hyperdrive connection string.

```js {3-3}
export default {
	async fetch(request, env, ctx): Promise<Response> {
		const sql = new Client({connectionString: env.HYPERDRIVE.connectionString})

		const url = new URL(request.url);

		//rest of the routes and database queries
	},
} satisfies ExportedHandler<Env>;

```

## 9. Redeploy your Worker

Run the following command to deploy your Worker:

```sh
npx wrangler deploy
```

Your Worker application is now live and accessible at `<YOUR_WORKER>.<YOUR_SUBDOMAIN>.workers.dev`, using Hyperdrive. Hyperdrive accelerates database queries by pooling your connections and caching your requests across the globe.

## Next steps

To build more with databases and Workers, refer to [Tutorials](/workers/tutorials) and explore the [Databases documentation](/workers/databases).

If you have any questions, need assistance, or would like to share your project, join the Cloudflare Developer community on [Discord](https://discord.cloudflare.com) to connect with fellow developers and the Cloudflare team.

Commit message:

Ai descriptions util (#25736)
* Edits

* final files

* remove tab

* fix more tabs

* fixed steps

* fix

* final fix

* Update src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/tutorials/okta-u2f.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/tutorials/vnc-client-in-browser.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/r2/tutorials/cloudflare-access.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/pages/how-to/deploy-a-wordpress-site.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/pages/migrations/migrating-from-netlify.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/reference-architecture/design-guides/network-vpn-migration.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/ssl/keyless-ssl/hardware-security-modules/ibm-cloud-hsm.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/turnstile/tutorials/excluding-turnstile-from-e2e-tests.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* update

---------

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

src/content/docs/workers/tutorials/postgres.mdx, after:

---
reviewed: 2025-07-01
difficulty: Beginner
pcx_content_type: tutorial
title: Connect to a PostgreSQL database with Cloudflare Workers
products:
  - Hyperdrive
tags:
  - PostgreSQL
  - TypeScript
  - SQL
description: >-
  This tutorial explains how to connect to a Postgres database with Cloudflare Workers. The Workers application you create in this tutorial will interact with a product database inside of Postgres.
---

import { Render, PackageManagers, WranglerConfig } from "~/components";

In this tutorial, you will learn how to create a Cloudflare Workers application and connect it to a PostgreSQL database using [TCP Sockets](/workers/runtime-apis/tcp-sockets/) and [Hyperdrive](/hyperdrive/). The Workers application you create in this tutorial will interact with a product database inside of PostgreSQL.

## Prerequisites

To continue:

1. Sign up for a [Cloudflare account](https://dash.cloudflare.com/sign-up/workers-and-pages) if you have not already.
2. Install [`npm`](https://docs.npmjs.com/getting-started).
3. Install [`Node.js`](https://nodejs.org/en/). Use a Node version manager like [Volta](https://volta.sh/) or [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) to avoid permission issues and change Node.js versions. [Wrangler](/workers/wrangler/install-and-update/) requires a Node version of `16.17.0` or later.
4. Make sure you have access to a PostgreSQL database.

## 1. Create a Worker application

First, use the [`create-cloudflare` CLI](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-sdk/tree/main/packages/create-cloudflare) to create a new Worker application. To do this, open a terminal window and run the following command:

<PackageManagers
	type="create"
	pkg="cloudflare@latest"
	args={"postgres-tutorial"}
/>

This will prompt you to install the [`create-cloudflare`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/create-cloudflare) package and lead you through a setup wizard.

<Render
	file="c3-post-run-steps"
	product="workers"
	params={{
		category: "hello-world",
		type: "Worker only",
		lang: "TypeScript",
	}}
/>

If you choose to deploy, you will be asked to authenticate (if not logged in already), and your project will be deployed. If you deploy, you can still modify your Worker code and deploy again at the end of this tutorial.

Now, move into the newly created directory:

```sh
cd postgres-tutorial
```

### Enable Node.js compatibility

[Node.js compatibility](/workers/runtime-apis/nodejs/) is required for database drivers, including Postgres.js, and needs to be configured for your Workers project.

<Render file="nodejs_compat" product="workers" />

## 2. Add the PostgreSQL connection library

To connect to a PostgreSQL database, you will need the `pg` library. In your Worker application directory, run the following command to install the library:

<PackageManagers pkg="pg" />

Next, install the TypeScript types for the `pg` library to enable type checking and autocompletion in your TypeScript code:

<PackageManagers pkg="@types/pg" dev />

:::note
Make sure you are using `pg` (`node-postgres`) version `8.16.3` or higher.
:::

## 3. Configure the connection to the PostgreSQL database

Choose one of the two methods to connect to your PostgreSQL database:

1. [Use a connection string](#use-a-connection-string).
2. [Set explicit parameters](#set-explicit-parameters).

### Use a connection string

A connection string contains all the information needed to connect to a database. It is a URL that contains the following information:

```
postgresql://username:password@host:port/database
```

Replace `username`, `password`, `host`, `port`, and `database` with the appropriate values for your PostgreSQL database.

Set your connection string as a [secret](/workers/configuration/secrets/) so that it is not stored as plain text. Use [`wrangler secret put`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#secret) with the example variable name `DB_URL`:

```sh
npx wrangler secret put DB_URL
```

```sh output
➜  wrangler secret put DB_URL
-------------------------------------------------------
? Enter a secret value: › ********************
✨ Success! Uploaded secret DB_URL
```

Set your `DB_URL` secret locally in a `.dev.vars` file as documented in [Local Development with Secrets](/workers/configuration/secrets/).

```toml title='.dev.vars'
DB_URL="<ENTER YOUR POSTGRESQL CONNECTION STRING>"
```

### Set explicit parameters

Configure each database parameter as an [environment variable](/workers/configuration/environment-variables/) via the [Cloudflare dashboard](/workers/configuration/environment-variables/#add-environment-variables-via-the-dashboard) or in your Wrangler file. Refer to an example of aWrangler file configuration:

<WranglerConfig>

```toml
[vars]
DB_USERNAME = "postgres"
# Set your password by creating a secret so it is not stored as plain text
DB_HOST = "ep-aged-sound-175961.us-east-2.aws.neon.tech"
DB_PORT = 5432
DB_NAME = "productsdb"
```

</WranglerConfig>

To set your password as a [secret](/workers/configuration/secrets/) so that it is not stored as plain text, use [`wrangler secret put`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#secret). `DB_PASSWORD` is an example variable name for this secret to be accessed in your Worker:

```sh
npx wrangler secret put DB_PASSWORD
```

```sh output
-------------------------------------------------------
? Enter a secret value: › ********************
✨ Success! Uploaded secret DB_PASSWORD
```

## 4. Connect to the PostgreSQL database in the Worker

Open your Worker's main file (for example, `worker.ts`) and import the `Client` class from the `pg` library:

```typescript
import { Client } from "pg";
```

In the `fetch` event handler, connect to the PostgreSQL database using your chosen method, either the connection string or the explicit parameters.

### Use a connection string

```typescript
// create a new Client instance using the connection string
const sql = new Client({ connectionString: env.DB_URL });
// connect to the PostgreSQL database
await sql.connect();
```

### Set explicit parameters

```typescript
// create a new Client instance using explicit parameters
const sql = new Client({
	username: env.DB_USERNAME,
	password: env.DB_PASSWORD,
	host: env.DB_HOST,
	port: env.DB_PORT,
	database: env.DB_NAME,
	ssl: true, // Enable SSL for secure connections
});
// connect to the PostgreSQL database
await sql.connect();
```

## 5. Interact with the products database

To demonstrate how to interact with the products database, you will fetch data from the `products` table by querying the table when a request is received.

:::note

If you are following along in your own PostgreSQL instance, set up the `products` using the following SQL `CREATE TABLE` statement. This statement defines the columns and their respective data types for the `products` table:

```sql
CREATE TABLE products (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  name VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL,
  description TEXT,
  price DECIMAL(10, 2) NOT NULL
);
```

:::

Replace the existing code in your `worker.ts` file with the following code:

```typescript
import { Client } from "pg";

export default {
	async fetch(request, env, ctx): Promise<Response> {
		// Create a new Client instance using the connection string
		// or explicit parameters as shown in the previous steps.
		// Here, we are using the connection string method.
		const sql = new Client({
			connectionString: env.DB_URL,
		});
        // Connect to the PostgreSQL database
        await sql.connect();

        // Query the products table
        const result = await sql.query("SELECT * FROM products");

        // Return the result as JSON
        return new Response(JSON.stringify(result.rows), {
            headers: {
                "Content-Type": "application/json",
            },
        });
	},
} satisfies ExportedHandler<Env>;
```

This code establishes a connection to the PostgreSQL database within your Worker application and queries the `products` table, returning the results as a JSON response.

## 6. Deploy your Worker

Run the following command to deploy your Worker:

```sh
npx wrangler deploy
```

Your application is now live and accessible at `<YOUR_WORKER>.<YOUR_SUBDOMAIN>.workers.dev`.

After deploying, you can interact with your PostgreSQL products database using your Cloudflare Worker. Whenever a request is made to your Worker's URL, it will fetch data from the `products` table and return it as a JSON response. You can modify the query as needed to retrieve the desired data from your products database.

## 7. Insert a new row into the products database

To insert a new row into the `products` table, create a new API endpoint in your Worker that handles a `POST` request. When a `POST` request is received with a JSON payload, the Worker will insert a new row into the `products` table with the provided data.

Assume the `products` table has the following columns: `id`, `name`, `description`, and `price`.

Add the following code snippet inside the `fetch` event handler in your `worker.ts` file, before the existing query code:

```typescript {15-39}
import { Client } from "pg";

export default {
	async fetch(request, env, ctx): Promise<Response> {
		// Create a new Client instance using the connection string
		// or explicit parameters as shown in the previous steps.
		// Here, we are using the connection string method.
		const sql = new Client({
			connectionString: env.DB_URL,
		});
        // Connect to the PostgreSQL database
        await sql.connect();

        const url = new URL(request.url);
        if (request.method === "POST" && url.pathname === "/products") {
            // Parse the request's JSON payload
            const productData = (await request.json()) as {
                name: string;
                description: string;
                price: number;
            };

            const name = productData.name,
                description = productData.description,
                price = productData.price;

            // Insert the new product into the products table
            const insertResult = await sql.query(
                `INSERT INTO products(name, description, price) VALUES($1, $2, $3)
    RETURNING *`,
                [name, description, price],
            );

            // Return the inserted row as JSON
            return new Response(JSON.stringify(insertResult.rows), {
                headers: { "Content-Type": "application/json" },
            });
        }

        // Query the products table
        const result = await sql.query("SELECT * FROM products");

        // Return the result as JSON
        return new Response(JSON.stringify(result.rows), {
            headers: {
                "Content-Type": "application/json",
            },
        });
	},
} satisfies ExportedHandler<Env>;
```

This code snippet does the following:

1. Checks if the request is a `POST` request and the URL path is `/products`.
2. Parses the JSON payload from the request.
3. Constructs an `INSERT` SQL query using the provided product data.
4. Executes the query, inserting the new row into the `products` table.
5. Returns the inserted row as a JSON response.

Now, when you send a `POST` request to your Worker's URL with the `/products` path and a JSON payload, the Worker will insert a new row into the `products` table with the provided data. When a request to `/` is made, the Worker will return all products in the database.

After making these changes, deploy the Worker again by running:

```sh
npx wrangler deploy
```

You can now use your Cloudflare Worker to insert new rows into the `products` table. To test this functionality, send a `POST` request to your Worker's URL with the `/products` path, along with a JSON payload containing the new product data:

```json
{
	"name": "Sample Product",
	"description": "This is a sample product",
	"price": 19.99
}
```

You have successfully created a Cloudflare Worker that connects to a PostgreSQL database and handles fetching data and inserting new rows into a products table.

## 8. Use Hyperdrive to accelerate queries

Create a Hyperdrive configuration using the connection string for your PostgreSQL database.

```bash
npx wrangler hyperdrive create <NAME_OF_HYPERDRIVE_CONFIG> --connection-string="postgres://user:password@HOSTNAME_OR_IP_ADDRESS:PORT/database_name" --caching-disabled
```

This command outputs the Hyperdrive configuration `id` that will be used for your Hyperdrive [binding](/workers/runtime-apis/bindings/). Set up your binding by specifying the `id` in the Wrangler file.

<WranglerConfig>

```toml {7-9}
name = "hyperdrive-example"
main = "src/index.ts"
compatibility_date = "2024-08-21"
compatibility_flags = ["nodejs_compat"]

# Pasted from the output of `wrangler hyperdrive create <NAME_OF_HYPERDRIVE_CONFIG> --connection-string=[...]` above.
[[hyperdrive]]
binding = "HYPERDRIVE"
id = "<ID OF THE CREATED HYPERDRIVE CONFIGURATION>"
```

</WranglerConfig>

Create the types for your Hyperdrive binding using the following command:

```bash
npx wrangler types
```

Replace your existing connection string in your Worker code with the Hyperdrive connection string.

```js {3-3}
export default {
	async fetch(request, env, ctx): Promise<Response> {
		const sql = new Client({connectionString: env.HYPERDRIVE.connectionString})

		const url = new URL(request.url);

		//rest of the routes and database queries
	},
} satisfies ExportedHandler<Env>;

```

## 9. Redeploy your Worker

Run the following command to deploy your Worker:

```sh
npx wrangler deploy
```

Your Worker application is now live and accessible at `<YOUR_WORKER>.<YOUR_SUBDOMAIN>.workers.dev`, using Hyperdrive. Hyperdrive accelerates database queries by pooling your connections and caching your requests across the globe.

## Next steps

To build more with databases and Workers, refer to [Tutorials](/workers/tutorials) and explore the [Databases documentation](/workers/databases).

If you have any questions, need assistance, or would like to share your project, join the Cloudflare Developer community on [Discord](https://discord.cloudflare.com) to connect with fellow developers and the Cloudflare team.
