src/content/docs/workers/tutorials/workers-kv-from-rust.mdx, before:

---
reviewed: 2024-05-15
difficulty: Intermediate
pcx_content_type: tutorial
title: Use Workers KV directly from Rust
products:
  - KV
tags:
  - Rust
---

import { Render, WranglerConfig } from "~/components";

This tutorial will teach you how to read and write to KV directly from Rust
using [workers-rs](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-rs).

<Render file="tutorials-before-you-start" product="workers" />

## Prerequisites

To complete this tutorial, you will need:

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git).
- [Wrangler](/workers/wrangler/) CLI.
- The [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install) toolchain.
- And `cargo-generate` sub-command by running:

```sh
cargo install cargo-generate
```

## 1. Create your Worker project in Rust

Open a terminal window, and run the following command to generate a Worker project template in Rust:

```sh
cargo generate cloudflare/workers-rs
```

Then select `template/hello-world-http` template, give your project a descriptive name and select enter. A new project should be created in your directory. Open the project in your editor and run `npx wrangler dev` to compile and run your project.

In this tutorial, you will use Workers KV from Rust to build an app to store and retrieve cities by a given country name.

## 2. Create a KV namespace

In the terminal, use Wrangler to create a KV namespace for `cities`. This generates a configuration to be added to the project:

```sh
npx wrangler kv namespace create cities
```

To add this configuration to your project, open the Wrangler file and create an entry for `kv_namespaces` above the build command:

<WranglerConfig>

```toml
kv_namespaces = [
  { binding = "cities", id = "e29b263ab50e42ce9b637fa8370175e8" }
]

# build command...
```

</WranglerConfig>

With this configured, you can access the KV namespace with the binding `"cities"` from Rust.

## 3. Write data to KV

For this app, you will create two routes: A `POST` route to receive and store the city in KV, and a `GET` route to retrieve the city of a given country. For example, a `POST` request to `/France` with a body of `{"city": "Paris"}` should create an entry of Paris as a city in France. A `GET` request to `/France` should retrieve from KV and respond with Paris.

Install [Serde](https://serde.rs/) as a project dependency to handle JSON `cargo add serde`. Then create an app router and a struct for `Country` in `src/lib.rs`:

```rust null {1,6,8,9,10,11,15,17}
use serde::{Deserialize, Serialize};
use worker::*;

#[event(fetch)]
async fn fetch(req: Request, env: Env, _ctx: Context) -> Result<Response> {
    let router = Router::new();

    #[derive(Serialize, Deserialize, Debug)]
    struct Country {
        city: String,
    }

    router
        // TODO:
        .post_async("/:country", |_, _| async move { Response::empty() })
        // TODO:
        .get_async("/:country", |_, _| async move { Response::empty() })
        .run(req, env)
        .await
}

```

For the post handler, you will retrieve the country name from the path and the city name from the request body. Then, you will save this in KV with the country as key and the city as value. Finally, the app will respond with the city name:

```rust
.post_async("/:country", |mut req, ctx| async move {
    let country = ctx.param("country").unwrap();
    let city = match req.json::<Country>().await {
        Ok(c) => c.city,
        Err(_) => String::from(""),
    };
    if city.is_empty() {
        return Response::error("Bad Request", 400);
    };
    return match ctx.kv("cities")?.put(country, &city)?.execute().await {
        Ok(_) => Response::ok(city),
        Err(_) => Response::error("Bad Request", 400),
    };
})
```

Save the file and make a `POST` request to test this endpoint:

```sh
curl --json '{"city": "Paris"}' http://localhost:8787/France
```

## 4. Read data from KV

To retrieve cities stored in KV, write a `GET` route that pulls the country name from the path and searches KV. You also need some error handling if the country is not found:

```rust
.get_async("/:country", |_req, ctx| async move {
    if let Some(country) = ctx.param("country") {
        return match ctx.kv("cities")?.get(country).text().await? {
            Some(city) => Response::ok(city),
            None => Response::error("Country not found", 404),
        };
    }
    Response::error("Bad Request", 400)
})
```

Save and make a curl request to test the endpoint:

```sh
curl http://localhost:8787/France
```

## 5. Deploy your project

The source code for the completed app should include the following:

```rust
use serde::{Deserialize, Serialize};
use worker::*;

#[event(fetch)]
async fn fetch(req: Request, env: Env, _ctx: Context) -> Result<Response> {
    let router = Router::new();

    #[derive(Serialize, Deserialize, Debug)]
    struct Country {
        city: String,
    }

    router
        .post_async("/:country", |mut req, ctx| async move {
            let country = ctx.param("country").unwrap();
            let city = match req.json::<Country>().await {
                Ok(c) => c.city,
                Err(_) => String::from(""),
            };
            if city.is_empty() {
                return Response::error("Bad Request", 400);
            };
            return match ctx.kv("cities")?.put(country, &city)?.execute().await {
                Ok(_) => Response::ok(city),
                Err(_) => Response::error("Bad Request", 400),
            };
        })
        .get_async("/:country", |_req, ctx| async move {
            if let Some(country) = ctx.param("country") {
                return match ctx.kv("cities")?.get(country).text().await? {
                    Some(city) => Response::ok(city),
                    None => Response::error("Country not found", 404),
                };
            }
            Response::error("Bad Request", 400)
        })
        .run(req, env)
        .await
}
```

To deploy your Worker, run the following command:

```sh
npx wrangler deploy
```

## Related resources

- [Rust support in Workers](/workers/languages/rust/).
- [Using KV in Workers](/kv/get-started/).

Commit message:

Ai descriptions util (#25736)
* Edits

* final files

* remove tab

* fix more tabs

* fixed steps

* fix

* final fix

* Update src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/tutorials/okta-u2f.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/tutorials/vnc-client-in-browser.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/r2/tutorials/cloudflare-access.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/pages/how-to/deploy-a-wordpress-site.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/pages/migrations/migrating-from-netlify.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/reference-architecture/design-guides/network-vpn-migration.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/ssl/keyless-ssl/hardware-security-modules/ibm-cloud-hsm.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/turnstile/tutorials/excluding-turnstile-from-e2e-tests.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* update

---------

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

src/content/docs/workers/tutorials/workers-kv-from-rust.mdx, after:

---
reviewed: 2024-05-15
difficulty: Intermediate
pcx_content_type: tutorial
title: Use Workers KV directly from Rust
products:
  - KV
tags:
  - Rust
description: >-
  This tutorial will teach you how to read and write to KV directly from Rust using workers-rs. You will use Workers KV from Rust to build an app to store and retrieve cities.
---

import { Render, WranglerConfig } from "~/components";

This tutorial will teach you how to read and write to KV directly from Rust
using [workers-rs](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-rs).

<Render file="tutorials-before-you-start" product="workers" />

## Prerequisites

To complete this tutorial, you will need:

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git).
- [Wrangler](/workers/wrangler/) CLI.
- The [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install) toolchain.
- And `cargo-generate` sub-command by running:

```sh
cargo install cargo-generate
```

## 1. Create your Worker project in Rust

Open a terminal window, and run the following command to generate a Worker project template in Rust:

```sh
cargo generate cloudflare/workers-rs
```

Then select `template/hello-world-http` template, give your project a descriptive name and select enter. A new project should be created in your directory. Open the project in your editor and run `npx wrangler dev` to compile and run your project.

In this tutorial, you will use Workers KV from Rust to build an app to store and retrieve cities by a given country name.

## 2. Create a KV namespace

In the terminal, use Wrangler to create a KV namespace for `cities`. This generates a configuration to be added to the project:

```sh
npx wrangler kv namespace create cities
```

To add this configuration to your project, open the Wrangler file and create an entry for `kv_namespaces` above the build command:

<WranglerConfig>

```toml
kv_namespaces = [
  { binding = "cities", id = "e29b263ab50e42ce9b637fa8370175e8" }
]

# build command...
```

</WranglerConfig>

With this configured, you can access the KV namespace with the binding `"cities"` from Rust.

## 3. Write data to KV

For this app, you will create two routes: A `POST` route to receive and store the city in KV, and a `GET` route to retrieve the city of a given country. For example, a `POST` request to `/France` with a body of `{"city": "Paris"}` should create an entry of Paris as a city in France. A `GET` request to `/France` should retrieve from KV and respond with Paris.

Install [Serde](https://serde.rs/) as a project dependency to handle JSON `cargo add serde`. Then create an app router and a struct for `Country` in `src/lib.rs`:

```rust null {1,6,8,9,10,11,15,17}
use serde::{Deserialize, Serialize};
use worker::*;

#[event(fetch)]
async fn fetch(req: Request, env: Env, _ctx: Context) -> Result<Response> {
    let router = Router::new();

    #[derive(Serialize, Deserialize, Debug)]
    struct Country {
        city: String,
    }

    router
        // TODO:
        .post_async("/:country", |_, _| async move { Response::empty() })
        // TODO:
        .get_async("/:country", |_, _| async move { Response::empty() })
        .run(req, env)
        .await
}

```

For the post handler, you will retrieve the country name from the path and the city name from the request body. Then, you will save this in KV with the country as key and the city as value. Finally, the app will respond with the city name:

```rust
.post_async("/:country", |mut req, ctx| async move {
    let country = ctx.param("country").unwrap();
    let city = match req.json::<Country>().await {
        Ok(c) => c.city,
        Err(_) => String::from(""),
    };
    if city.is_empty() {
        return Response::error("Bad Request", 400);
    };
    return match ctx.kv("cities")?.put(country, &city)?.execute().await {
        Ok(_) => Response::ok(city),
        Err(_) => Response::error("Bad Request", 400),
    };
})
```

Save the file and make a `POST` request to test this endpoint:

```sh
curl --json '{"city": "Paris"}' http://localhost:8787/France
```

## 4. Read data from KV

To retrieve cities stored in KV, write a `GET` route that pulls the country name from the path and searches KV. You also need some error handling if the country is not found:

```rust
.get_async("/:country", |_req, ctx| async move {
    if let Some(country) = ctx.param("country") {
        return match ctx.kv("cities")?.get(country).text().await? {
            Some(city) => Response::ok(city),
            None => Response::error("Country not found", 404),
        };
    }
    Response::error("Bad Request", 400)
})
```

Save and make a curl request to test the endpoint:

```sh
curl http://localhost:8787/France
```

## 5. Deploy your project

The source code for the completed app should include the following:

```rust
use serde::{Deserialize, Serialize};
use worker::*;

#[event(fetch)]
async fn fetch(req: Request, env: Env, _ctx: Context) -> Result<Response> {
    let router = Router::new();

    #[derive(Serialize, Deserialize, Debug)]
    struct Country {
        city: String,
    }

    router
        .post_async("/:country", |mut req, ctx| async move {
            let country = ctx.param("country").unwrap();
            let city = match req.json::<Country>().await {
                Ok(c) => c.city,
                Err(_) => String::from(""),
            };
            if city.is_empty() {
                return Response::error("Bad Request", 400);
            };
            return match ctx.kv("cities")?.put(country, &city)?.execute().await {
                Ok(_) => Response::ok(city),
                Err(_) => Response::error("Bad Request", 400),
            };
        })
        .get_async("/:country", |_req, ctx| async move {
            if let Some(country) = ctx.param("country") {
                return match ctx.kv("cities")?.get(country).text().await? {
                    Some(city) => Response::ok(city),
                    None => Response::error("Country not found", 404),
                };
            }
            Response::error("Bad Request", 400)
        })
        .run(req, env)
        .await
}
```

To deploy your Worker, run the following command:

```sh
npx wrangler deploy
```

## Related resources

- [Rust support in Workers](/workers/languages/rust/).
- [Using KV in Workers](/kv/get-started/).
