src/content/docs/fundamentals/account/account-security/cloudflare-access.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Allow Cloudflare access
head:
  - tag: title
    content: Provide edit access to Cloudflare Support
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

Occasionally, you may want to allow edit access to your account for Cloudflare Support. A typical use case might be migrating a complex or sensitive domain over to Cloudflare.

By default, Cloudflare Support does not have edit access to your account.

To enable editing access by Cloudflare Support:

1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/login) and select your account (you must be logged in as a **Super Administrator**).
2. Go to **Manage Account** > **Configurations**.
3. For **Editing Permission**, switch the toggle to **On**.
4. Select a duration.
5. Click **Approve**.

:::note


In an emergency, Cloudflare Support can override your **Editing Permissions** and make updates to your account, but your Super Administrator will receive an email and the action will be recorded in your [Audit Logs](/fundamentals/account/account-security/review-audit-logs/) with an **Action** of **Break glass**.


:::

Commit message:

Dash button - Fundamentals and Version control (#25039)
* Fundamentals - dash button

* Version mgmt - dash buttons

* Apply suggestion from @ToriLindsay

Co-authored-by: ToriLindsay <tgalatro@cloudflare.com>

* Apply suggestion from @ToriLindsay

Co-authored-by: ToriLindsay <tgalatro@cloudflare.com>

* Apply suggestion from @ToriLindsay

Co-authored-by: ToriLindsay <tgalatro@cloudflare.com>

* Apply suggestion from @ToriLindsay

Co-authored-by: ToriLindsay <tgalatro@cloudflare.com>

* Apply suggestion from @ToriLindsay

Co-authored-by: ToriLindsay <tgalatro@cloudflare.com>

* Apply suggestion from @ToriLindsay

Co-authored-by: ToriLindsay <tgalatro@cloudflare.com>

* Apply suggestion from @ToriLindsay

Co-authored-by: ToriLindsay <tgalatro@cloudflare.com>

* implementing feedback

* Implementing review feedback

* Styling fixes

---------

Co-authored-by: ToriLindsay <tgalatro@cloudflare.com>

src/content/docs/fundamentals/account/account-security/cloudflare-access.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Allow Cloudflare access
head:
  - tag: title
    content: Provide edit access to Cloudflare Support
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

import { DashButton } from "~/components";

Occasionally, you may want to allow edit access to your account for Cloudflare Support. A typical use case might be migrating a complex or sensitive domain over to Cloudflare.

By default, Cloudflare Support does not have edit access to your account.

To enable editing access by Cloudflare Support:

1. In the Cloudflare dashboard, go to the **Configurations** page. (You must be logged in as a **Super Administrator**).

    <DashButton url="/?to=/:account/configurations" />

2. For **Editing Permission**, switch the toggle to **On**.
3. Select a duration.
4. Click **Approve**.

:::note


In an emergency, Cloudflare Support can override your **Editing Permissions** and make updates to your account, but your Super Administrator will receive an email and the action will be recorded in your [Audit Logs](/fundamentals/account/account-security/review-audit-logs/) with an **Action** of **Break glass**.


:::
