src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/configuration/appliances/configure-virtual-connector.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Configure Virtual Appliances
description: Learn how to configure WAN Tunnels Virtual Appliances on VMWare ESXi or Proxmox Virtual Environment
sidebar:
  order: 4
---

import { Render } from "~/components";

<Render file="mconn/configure-connectors"
	product="networking-services"
	params={{
	magicWord: "virtual",
	productName: "Appliances",
	productNameVirtual: "Virtual Appliance",
	maintenanceURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/configuration/appliances/maintenance/",
	productOriginalName: "WAN Tunnels",
	wan: "needs to correspond to the virtual network interface on the Virtual Appliances instance you have set up in VMware. Following our example from the previous steps, you need to choose port `1` since that is what corresponds to the `eno1` port we set up in VMware.",
	lan: "needs to correspond to the virtual LAN interface on the Virtual Appliances instance you have set up in VMware. Following our example from the previous steps, you need to choose port `2` since that is what corresponds to the `eno2` port we set up in VMware.",
	noConnectorShows: "For a Virtual Appliance to show up you need to: <br /><ul><li><strong>VMWare:</strong> Have already obtained your OVA package and license keys if you are installing on VMWare.</li><li><strong>Proxmox:</strong> Have already obtained your Virtual Appliance Script and license keys if you are installing on Proxmox.</li></ul>\nFor more information, refer to [Configure a virtual machine](#configure-a-virtual-machine) and select the appropriate tab.\n",
	networkSegmentationURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/configuration/appliances/network-options/network-segmentation/",
	dhcpServerURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/configuration/appliances/network-options/dhcp/dhcp-server/",
  dhcpRelayURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/configuration/appliances/network-options/dhcp/dhcp-relay/",
  reserveIpAddressesURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/configuration/appliances/network-options/dhcp/dhcp-static-address-reservation/",
	shippedLanguage: "Virtual Appliance is deactivated after you install it",
	hardSoftConn: "You need to install two Virtual Appliances before you can set up a site in high availability.",
	hcConfigsURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/configuration/appliances/reference/#high-availability-configurations",
	finalInstructions:  "Follow the instructions in [Activate appliance](#activate-appliance) to finish setting up your Appliances.",
	ipsecTunnelsRefURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/reference/gre-ipsec-tunnels/#ipsec-tunnels",
	trafficSteeringURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/reference/traffic-steering/",
	vlanIdURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/configuration/appliances/reference/#vlan-id",
	healthCheckFrequencyURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/configuration/common-settings/update-tunnel-health-checks-frequency/",
	routedSubnetsURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/configuration/appliances/network-options/routed-subnets/",
	interruptWindowURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/configuration/appliances/maintenance/interrupt-service-window/",
	tunnelHealthChecksURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/reference/tunnel-health-checks/",
	wanSettingsURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/configuration/appliances/reference/#wan-settings",
	sitesURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/configuration/common-settings/sites/",
	networkOptionsURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/configuration/appliances/network-options/",
  maintenanceURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/configuration/appliances/maintenance/",
  referenceInformationURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/configuration/appliances/reference/",
  troubleshootingURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/configuration/appliances/troubleshooting/"
	}} />

Commit message:

[WAN Tunnels] Reverted naming conventions to MWAN (#26192)
* reverted to previous naming convention

* top-level name

* consistent magicword

* names

* anchor links

* names and links

* names

* link

* refined

* refined

* corrected var

* refined solution

* typo

* vars refine

* hardcoded magic wan for connectors

* corrected vars

* refined vars

* var

* vars

* refined vars

* refined

* fix vars

* missing comma

* commas

* dashanme

* typo

* var fix

* vars

* hardcoded mwan

* var

* duplicate vars

src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/configuration/appliances/configure-virtual-connector.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Configure Virtual Connector
description: Learn how to configure Magic WAN Virtual Connector on VMWare ESXi or Proxmox Virtual Environment
sidebar:
  order: 4
---

import { Render } from "~/components";

<Render file="mconn/configure-connectors"
	product="networking-services"
	params={{
	magicWord: "virtual",
	productName: "Magic WAN Connector",
	productNameVirtual: "Virtual Connector",
	maintenanceURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/configuration/appliances/maintenance/",
	dashName: "WAN Tunnels",
	wan: "needs to correspond to the virtual network interface on the Virtual Connector instance you have set up in VMware. Following our example from the previous steps, you need to choose port `1` since that is what corresponds to the `eno1` port we set up in VMware.",
	lan: "needs to correspond to the virtual LAN interface on the Virtual Connector instance you have set up in VMware. Following our example from the previous steps, you need to choose port `2` since that is what corresponds to the `eno2` port we set up in VMware.",
	noConnectorShows: "For a Virtual Connector to show up you need to: <br /><ul><li><strong>VMWare:</strong> Have already obtained your OVA package and license keys if you are installing on VMWare.</li><li><strong>Proxmox:</strong> Have already obtained your Virtual Connector Script and license keys if you are installing on Proxmox.</li></ul>\nFor more information, refer to [Configure a virtual machine](#configure-a-virtual-machine) and select the appropriate tab.\n",
	networkSegmentationURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/configuration/appliances/network-options/network-segmentation/",
	dhcpServerURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/configuration/appliances/network-options/dhcp/dhcp-server/",
  dhcpRelayURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/configuration/appliances/network-options/dhcp/dhcp-relay/",
  reserveIpAddressesURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/configuration/appliances/network-options/dhcp/dhcp-static-address-reservation/",
	shippedLanguage: "Virtual Connector is deactivated after you install it",
	hardSoftConn: "You need to install two Virtual Connectors before you can set up a site in high availability.",
	hcConfigsURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/configuration/appliances/reference/#high-availability-configurations",
	finalInstructions:  "Follow the instructions in [Activate Connector](#activate-connector) to finish setting up your Connectors.",
	ipsecTunnelsRefURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/reference/gre-ipsec-tunnels/#ipsec-tunnels",
	trafficSteeringURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/reference/traffic-steering/",
	vlanIdURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/configuration/appliances/reference/#vlan-id",
	healthCheckFrequencyURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/configuration/common-settings/update-tunnel-health-checks-frequency/",
	routedSubnetsURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/configuration/appliances/network-options/routed-subnets/",
	interruptWindowURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/configuration/appliances/maintenance/interrupt-service-window/",
	tunnelHealthChecksURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/reference/tunnel-health-checks/",
	wanSettingsURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/configuration/appliances/reference/#wan-settings",
	sitesURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/configuration/common-settings/sites/",
	networkOptionsURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/configuration/appliances/network-options/",
  maintenanceURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/configuration/appliances/maintenance/",
  referenceInformationURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/configuration/appliances/reference/",
  troubleshootingURL: "/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/wan-tunnels/configuration/appliances/troubleshooting/"
	}} />
