src/content/docs/workers/configuration/routing/workers-dev.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: workers.dev
---

import { WranglerConfig, DashButton } from "~/components";

Cloudflare Workers accounts come with a `workers.dev` subdomain that is configurable in the Cloudflare dashboard. Your `workers.dev` subdomain allows you getting started quickly by deploying Workers without first onboarding your custom domain to Cloudflare.

It's recommended to run production Workers on a [Workers route or custom domain](/workers/configuration/routing/), rather than on your `workers.dev` subdomain. Your `workers.dev` subdomain is treated as a [Free website](https://www.cloudflare.com/plans/) and is intended for personal or hobby projects that aren't business-critical.

## Configure `workers.dev`

`workers.dev` subdomains take the format: `<YOUR_ACCOUNT_SUBDOMAIN>.workers.dev`. To change your `workers.dev` subdomain:

1. In the Cloudflare dashboard, go to the **Workers & Pages** page.

   <DashButton url="/?to=/:account/workers-and-pages" />

2. Select **Change** next to **Your subdomain**.

All Workers are assigned a `workers.dev` route when they are created or renamed following the syntax `<YOUR_WORKER_NAME>.<YOUR_SUBDOMAIN>.workers.dev`. The [`name`](/workers/wrangler/configuration/#inheritable-keys) field in your Worker configuration is used as the subdomain for the deployed Worker.

## Manage access to `workers.dev`

When enabled, your `workers.dev` URL is available publicly. You can use [Cloudflare Access](/cloudflare-one/access-controls/policies/) to require visitors to authenticate before accessing preview URLs. You can limit access to yourself, your teammates, your organization, or anyone else you specify in your [access policy](/cloudflare-one/access-controls/policies/).

To limit your `workers.dev` URL to authorized emails only:

1. In the Cloudflare dashboard, go to the **Workers & Pages** page.

   <DashButton url="/?to=/:account/workers-and-pages" />

2. In **Overview**, select your Worker.
3. Go to **Settings** > **Domains & Routes**.
4. For `workers.dev`, click **Enable Cloudflare Access**.
5. Optionally, to configure the Access application, click **Manage Cloudflare Access**. There, you can change the email addresses you want to authorize. View [Access policies](/cloudflare-one/access-controls/policies/#selectors) to learn about configuring alternate rules.
6. [Validate the Access JWT](https://developers.cloudflare.com/cloudflare-one/access-controls/applications/http-apps/authorization-cookie/validating-json/#cloudflare-workers-example) in your Worker script using the audience (`aud`) tag and JWKs URL provided.

## Disabling `workers.dev`

### Disabling `workers.dev` in the dashboard

To disable the `workers.dev` route for a Worker:

1. In the Cloudflare dashboard, go to the **Workers & Pages** page.

   <DashButton url="/?to=/:account/workers-and-pages" />

2. In **Overview**, select your Worker.
3. Go to **Settings** > **Domains & Routes**.
4. On `workers.dev` click "Disable".
5. Confirm you want to disable.

### Disabling `workers.dev` in the Wrangler configuration file

To disable the `workers.dev` route for a Worker, include the following in your Worker's [Wrangler configuration file](/workers/wrangler/configuration/):

<WranglerConfig>

```toml
workers_dev = false
```

</WranglerConfig>

When you redeploy your Worker with this change, the `workers.dev` route will be disabled. Disabling your `workers.dev` route does not disable Preview URLs. Learn how to [disable Preview URLs](/workers/configuration/previews/#disabling-preview-urls).

If you do not specify `workers_dev = false` but add a [`routes` component](/workers/wrangler/configuration/#routes) to your [Wrangler configuration file](/workers/wrangler/configuration/), the value of `workers_dev` will be inferred as `false` on the next deploy.

:::caution

If you disable your `workers.dev` route in the Cloudflare dashboard but do not update your Worker's Wrangler file with `workers_dev = false`, the `workers.dev` route will be re-enabled the next time you deploy your Worker with Wrangler.
:::

## Related resources

- [Announcing `workers.dev`](https://blog.cloudflare.com/announcing-workers-dev)
- [Wrangler routes configuration](/workers/wrangler/configuration/#types-of-routes)

Commit message:

WC-4172 Document worker naming limitations, including subdomains (#26350)

src/content/docs/workers/configuration/routing/workers-dev.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: workers.dev
---

import { WranglerConfig, DashButton } from "~/components";

Cloudflare Workers accounts come with a `workers.dev` subdomain that is configurable in the Cloudflare dashboard. Your `workers.dev` subdomain allows you getting started quickly by deploying Workers without first onboarding your custom domain to Cloudflare.

It's recommended to run production Workers on a [Workers route or custom domain](/workers/configuration/routing/), rather than on your `workers.dev` subdomain. Your `workers.dev` subdomain is treated as a [Free website](https://www.cloudflare.com/plans/) and is intended for personal or hobby projects that aren't business-critical.

## Configure `workers.dev`

`workers.dev` subdomains take the format: `<YOUR_ACCOUNT_SUBDOMAIN>.workers.dev`. To change your `workers.dev` subdomain:

1. In the Cloudflare dashboard, go to the **Workers & Pages** page.

   <DashButton url="/?to=/:account/workers-and-pages" />

2. Select **Change** next to **Your subdomain**.

All Workers are assigned a `workers.dev` route when they are created or renamed following the syntax `<YOUR_WORKER_NAME>.<YOUR_SUBDOMAIN>.workers.dev`. The [`name`](/workers/wrangler/configuration/#inheritable-keys) field in your Worker configuration is used as the subdomain for the deployed Worker.

## Manage access to `workers.dev`

When enabled, your `workers.dev` URL is available publicly. You can use [Cloudflare Access](/cloudflare-one/access-controls/policies/) to require visitors to authenticate before accessing preview URLs. You can limit access to yourself, your teammates, your organization, or anyone else you specify in your [access policy](/cloudflare-one/access-controls/policies/).

To limit your `workers.dev` URL to authorized emails only:

1. In the Cloudflare dashboard, go to the **Workers & Pages** page.

   <DashButton url="/?to=/:account/workers-and-pages" />

2. In **Overview**, select your Worker.
3. Go to **Settings** > **Domains & Routes**.
4. For `workers.dev`, click **Enable Cloudflare Access**.
5. Optionally, to configure the Access application, click **Manage Cloudflare Access**. There, you can change the email addresses you want to authorize. View [Access policies](/cloudflare-one/access-controls/policies/#selectors) to learn about configuring alternate rules.
6. [Validate the Access JWT](https://developers.cloudflare.com/cloudflare-one/access-controls/applications/http-apps/authorization-cookie/validating-json/#cloudflare-workers-example) in your Worker script using the audience (`aud`) tag and JWKs URL provided.

## Disabling `workers.dev`

### Disabling `workers.dev` in the dashboard

To disable the `workers.dev` route for a Worker:

1. In the Cloudflare dashboard, go to the **Workers & Pages** page.

   <DashButton url="/?to=/:account/workers-and-pages" />

2. In **Overview**, select your Worker.
3. Go to **Settings** > **Domains & Routes**.
4. On `workers.dev` click "Disable".
5. Confirm you want to disable.

### Disabling `workers.dev` in the Wrangler configuration file

To disable the `workers.dev` route for a Worker, include the following in your Worker's [Wrangler configuration file](/workers/wrangler/configuration/):

<WranglerConfig>

```toml
workers_dev = false
```

</WranglerConfig>

When you redeploy your Worker with this change, the `workers.dev` route will be disabled. Disabling your `workers.dev` route does not disable Preview URLs. Learn how to [disable Preview URLs](/workers/configuration/previews/#disabling-preview-urls).

If you do not specify `workers_dev = false` but add a [`routes` component](/workers/wrangler/configuration/#routes) to your [Wrangler configuration file](/workers/wrangler/configuration/), the value of `workers_dev` will be inferred as `false` on the next deploy.

:::caution

If you disable your `workers.dev` route in the Cloudflare dashboard but do not update your Worker's Wrangler file with `workers_dev = false`, the `workers.dev` route will be re-enabled the next time you deploy your Worker with Wrangler.
:::

## Limitations

When deploying a Worker with a `workers.dev` subdomain enabled, your Worker name must meet the following requirements:

- Must be 63 characters or less
- Must contain only alphanumeric characters (`a-z`, `A-Z`, `0-9`) and dashes (`-`)
- Cannot start or end with a dash (`-`)

These restrictions apply because the Worker name is used as a DNS label in your `workers.dev` URL. DNS labels have a maximum length of 63 characters and cannot begin or end with a dash.

:::note

Worker names can be up to 255 characters when not using a `workers.dev` subdomain. If you need a longer name, you can disable `workers.dev` and use [routes](/workers/configuration/routing/routes/) or [custom domains](/workers/configuration/routing/custom-domains/) instead.

:::

## Related resources

- [Announcing `workers.dev`](https://blog.cloudflare.com/announcing-workers-dev)
- [Wrangler routes configuration](/workers/wrangler/configuration/#types-of-routes)
