src/content/docs/logs/logpush/logpush-job/filters.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to

title: Filters
sidebar:
  order: 5
---

import { Render, APIRequest } from "~/components";

The following table represents the comparison operators that are supported and example values. Filters are added as escaped JSON strings formatted as `{"key":"<field>","operator":"<comparison_operator>","value":"<value>"}`.

- Refer to the [Datasets](/logs/logpush/logpush-job/datasets/) page for a list of fields related to each dataset.

- Comparison operators define how values must relate to fields in the log line for an expression to return true.

- Values represent the data associated with fields.

| Name                            | Operator Notation | String | Int | Bool | Array | Object | Example                                                                |
| ------------------------------- | ----------------- | ------ | --- | ---- | ----- | ------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Equal                           | `eq`              | ✅     | ✅  | ✅   | ❌    | ❌     | `{"key":"ClientRequestHost","operator":"eq","value":"example.com"}`    |
| Not equal                       | `!eq`             | ✅     | ✅  | ✅   | ❌    | ❌     | `{"key":"ClientCountry","operator":"!eq","value":"ca"}`                |
| Less than                       | `lt`              | ❌     | ✅  | ❌   | ❌    | ❌     | `{"key":"BotScore","operator":"lt","value":"30"}`                      |
| Less than or equal              | `leq`             | ❌     | ✅  | ❌   | ❌    | ❌     | `{"key":"BotScore","operator":"leq","value":"30"}`                     |
| Greater than                    | `gt`              | ❌     | ✅  | ❌   | ❌    | ❌     | `{"key":"BotScore","operator":"gt","value":"30"}`                      |
| Greater than or equal           | `geq`             | ❌     | ✅  | ❌   | ❌    | ❌     | `{"key":"BotScore","operator":"geq","value":"30"}`                     |
| Starts with                     | `startsWith`      | ✅     | ❌  | ❌   | ❌    | ❌     | `{"key":"ClientRequestPath","operator":"startsWith","value":"/foo"}`   |
| Ends with                       | `endsWith`        | ✅     | ❌  | ❌   | ❌    | ❌     | `{"key":"ClientRequestPath","operator":"endsWith","value":"/foo"}`     |
| Does not start with             | `!startsWith`     | ✅     | ❌  | ❌   | ❌    | ❌     | `{"key":"ClientRequestPath","operator":"!startsWith","value":"/foo"}`  |
| Does not end with               | `!endsWith`       | ✅     | ❌  | ❌   | ❌    | ❌     | `{"key":"ClientRequestPath","operator":"!endsWith","value":"/foo"}`    |
| Contains                        | `contains`        | ✅     | ❌  | ❌   | ✅    | ❌     | `{"key":"ClientRequestPath","operator":"contains","value":"/static"}`  |
| Does not contain                | `!contains`       | ✅     | ❌  | ❌   | ✅    | ❌     | `{"key":"ClientRequestPath","operator":"!contains","value":"/static"}` |
| Value is in a set of values     | `in`              | ✅     | ✅  | ❌   | ❌    | ❌     | `{"key":"EdgeResponseStatus","operator":"in","value":[200,201]}`       |
| Value is not in a set of values | `!in`             | ✅     | ✅  | ❌   | ❌    | ❌     | `{"key":"EdgeResponseStatus","operator":"!in","value":[200,201]}`      |

The filter field has limits of approximately 30 operators and 1000 bytes. Anything exceeding this value will return an error.

<Render file="filtering-limitations" product="logs" />

## Logical Operators

- Filters can be connected using `AND`, `OR` logical operators.

- Logical operators can be nested.

Here are some examples of how the logical operators can be implemented. `X`, `Y` and `Z` are used to represent filter criteria:

- X AND Y AND Z - `{"where":{"and":[{X},{Y},{Z}]}}`

- X OR Y OR Z - `{"where":{"or":[{X},{Y},{Z}]}}`

- X AND (Y OR Z) - `{"where":{"and":[{X}, {"or":[{Y},{Z}]}]}}`

- (X AND Y) OR Z - `{"where":{"or":[{"and": [{X},{Y}]},{Z}]}}`

## Set filters via API or dashboard

Filters can be set via API or the Cloudflare dashboard. Note that using a filter is optional, but if used, it must contain the `where` key.

### API

Here is an example request using cURL via API:

<APIRequest
	path="/zones/{zone_id}/logpush/jobs"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "static-assets",
		output_options: {
			field_names: ["ClientIP", "EdgeStartTimestamp", "RayID"],
			sample_rate: 0.1,
			timestamp_format: "rfc3339",
			"CVE-2021-44228": true,
		},
		dataset: "http_requests",
		filter: JSON.stringify({
			where: {
				and: [
					{ key: "ClientRequestPath", operator: "contains", value: "/static" },
					{ key: "ClientRequestHost", operator: "eq", value: "example.com" },
				],
			},
		}),
		destination_conf: "s3://<BUCKET_PATH>?region=us-west-2/",
	}}
/>

### Dashboard

To set filters through the dashboard:

1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/login) and select the account or domain you want to use.
2. Go to **Analytics & Logs** > **Logs**.
3. Select **Add Logpush job**. A modal window will open.
4. Select the dataset you want to push to a storage service.
5. Below **Select data fields**, in the **Filter** section, you can set up your filters.
6. You need to select a [dataset field](/logs/logpush/logpush-job/datasets/), an [Operator](/logs/logpush/logpush-job/filters/#logical-operators), and a **Value**.
7. You can connect more filters using `AND` and `OR` logical operators.
8. Select **Next** to continue the setting up of your Logpush job.

Commit message:

[Logs] Updates logpush navigation with dashbutton (#25757)
* Updates logpush navigation

* Adds more info to path

src/content/docs/logs/logpush/logpush-job/filters.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to

title: Filters
sidebar:
  order: 5
---

import { Render, APIRequest, DashButton } from "~/components";

The following table represents the comparison operators that are supported and example values. Filters are added as escaped JSON strings formatted as `{"key":"<field>","operator":"<comparison_operator>","value":"<value>"}`.

- Refer to the [Datasets](/logs/logpush/logpush-job/datasets/) page for a list of fields related to each dataset.

- Comparison operators define how values must relate to fields in the log line for an expression to return true.

- Values represent the data associated with fields.

| Name                            | Operator Notation | String | Int | Bool | Array | Object | Example                                                                |
| ------------------------------- | ----------------- | ------ | --- | ---- | ----- | ------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Equal                           | `eq`              | ✅     | ✅  | ✅   | ❌    | ❌     | `{"key":"ClientRequestHost","operator":"eq","value":"example.com"}`    |
| Not equal                       | `!eq`             | ✅     | ✅  | ✅   | ❌    | ❌     | `{"key":"ClientCountry","operator":"!eq","value":"ca"}`                |
| Less than                       | `lt`              | ❌     | ✅  | ❌   | ❌    | ❌     | `{"key":"BotScore","operator":"lt","value":"30"}`                      |
| Less than or equal              | `leq`             | ❌     | ✅  | ❌   | ❌    | ❌     | `{"key":"BotScore","operator":"leq","value":"30"}`                     |
| Greater than                    | `gt`              | ❌     | ✅  | ❌   | ❌    | ❌     | `{"key":"BotScore","operator":"gt","value":"30"}`                      |
| Greater than or equal           | `geq`             | ❌     | ✅  | ❌   | ❌    | ❌     | `{"key":"BotScore","operator":"geq","value":"30"}`                     |
| Starts with                     | `startsWith`      | ✅     | ❌  | ❌   | ❌    | ❌     | `{"key":"ClientRequestPath","operator":"startsWith","value":"/foo"}`   |
| Ends with                       | `endsWith`        | ✅     | ❌  | ❌   | ❌    | ❌     | `{"key":"ClientRequestPath","operator":"endsWith","value":"/foo"}`     |
| Does not start with             | `!startsWith`     | ✅     | ❌  | ❌   | ❌    | ❌     | `{"key":"ClientRequestPath","operator":"!startsWith","value":"/foo"}`  |
| Does not end with               | `!endsWith`       | ✅     | ❌  | ❌   | ❌    | ❌     | `{"key":"ClientRequestPath","operator":"!endsWith","value":"/foo"}`    |
| Contains                        | `contains`        | ✅     | ❌  | ❌   | ✅    | ❌     | `{"key":"ClientRequestPath","operator":"contains","value":"/static"}`  |
| Does not contain                | `!contains`       | ✅     | ❌  | ❌   | ✅    | ❌     | `{"key":"ClientRequestPath","operator":"!contains","value":"/static"}` |
| Value is in a set of values     | `in`              | ✅     | ✅  | ❌   | ❌    | ❌     | `{"key":"EdgeResponseStatus","operator":"in","value":[200,201]}`       |
| Value is not in a set of values | `!in`             | ✅     | ✅  | ❌   | ❌    | ❌     | `{"key":"EdgeResponseStatus","operator":"!in","value":[200,201]}`      |

The filter field has limits of approximately 30 operators and 1000 bytes. Anything exceeding this value will return an error.

<Render file="filtering-limitations" product="logs" />

## Logical Operators

- Filters can be connected using `AND`, `OR` logical operators.

- Logical operators can be nested.

Here are some examples of how the logical operators can be implemented. `X`, `Y` and `Z` are used to represent filter criteria:

- X AND Y AND Z - `{"where":{"and":[{X},{Y},{Z}]}}`

- X OR Y OR Z - `{"where":{"or":[{X},{Y},{Z}]}}`

- X AND (Y OR Z) - `{"where":{"and":[{X}, {"or":[{Y},{Z}]}]}}`

- (X AND Y) OR Z - `{"where":{"or":[{"and": [{X},{Y}]},{Z}]}}`

## Set filters via API or dashboard

Filters can be set via API or the Cloudflare dashboard. Note that using a filter is optional, but if used, it must contain the `where` key.

### API

Here is an example request using cURL via API:

<APIRequest
	path="/zones/{zone_id}/logpush/jobs"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "static-assets",
		output_options: {
			field_names: ["ClientIP", "EdgeStartTimestamp", "RayID"],
			sample_rate: 0.1,
			timestamp_format: "rfc3339",
			"CVE-2021-44228": true,
		},
		dataset: "http_requests",
		filter: JSON.stringify({
			where: {
				and: [
					{ key: "ClientRequestPath", operator: "contains", value: "/static" },
					{ key: "ClientRequestHost", operator: "eq", value: "example.com" },
				],
			},
		}),
		destination_conf: "s3://<BUCKET_PATH>?region=us-west-2/",
	}}
/>

### Dashboard

To set filters through the dashboard:

1. In the Cloudflare dashboard, go to the **Logpush** page at the account or or domain (also known as zone) level.
 
   For account: <DashButton url="/?to=/:account/logs" />
 
   For domain (also known as zone): <DashButton url="/?to=/:account/:zone/analytics/logs" />


2. Select the dataset you want to push to a storage service. Depending on your choice, you have access to [account-scoped datasets](/logs/logpush/logpush-job/datasets/account/) and [zone-scoped datasets](/logs/logpush/logpush-job/datasets/zone/), respectively.
3. Below **Select data fields**, in the **Filter** section, you can set up your filters.
4. You need to select a [dataset field](/logs/logpush/logpush-job/datasets/), an [Operator](/logs/logpush/logpush-job/filters/#logical-operators), and a **Value**.
5. You can connect more filters using `AND` and `OR` logical operators.
6. Select **Next** to continue the setting up of your Logpush job.
