src/content/docs/ai-gateway/features/dynamic-routing/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Dynamic routing
pcx_content_type: navigation
order: 1
sidebar:
  order: 4
  group:
    badge: Beta
---

import { CardGrid, LinkTitleCard, YouTube } from "~/components";

## Introduction

Dynamic routing enables you to create request routing flows through a **visual interface** or a **JSON-based configuration**. Instead of hard-coding a single model, with Dynamic Routing you compose a small flow that evaluates conditions, enforces quotas, and chooses models with fallbacks. You can iterate without touching application code—publish a new route version and you’re done. With dynamic routing, you can easily implement advanced use cases such as:

- Directing different segments (paid/not-paid user) to different models
- Restricting each user/project/team with budget/rate limits
- A/B and gradual rollouts

while making it accessible to both developers and non-technical team members.

![Dynamic Routing Overview](~/assets/images/ai-gateway/dynamic-routing.png)

## Core Concepts

- **Route**: A named, versioned flow (for example, dynamic/support) that you can use as instead of the model name in your requests.
- **Nodes**
  - **Start**: Entry point for the route.
  - **Conditional**: If/Else branch based on expressions that reference request body, headers, or metadata (for example, user_plan == "paid").
  - **Percentage**: Routes requests probabilistically across multiple outputs, useful for A/B testing and gradual rollouts.
  - **Model**: Calls a provider/model with the request parameters
  - **Rate Limit**: Enforces number of requests quotas (per your key, per period) and switches to fallback when exceeded.
  - **Budget Limit**: Enforces cost quotas (per your key, per period) and switches to fallback when exceeded.
  - **End**: Terminates the flow and returns the final model response.
- **Metadata**: Arbitrary key-value context attached to the request (for example, userId, orgId, plan). You can pass this from your app so rules can reference it.
- **Versions**: Each change produces a new draft. Deploy to make it live with instant rollback.

## Getting Started

:::caution

Ensure your gateway has [authentication](/ai-gateway/configuration/authentication/) turned on, and you have your upstream providers keys stored with [BYOK](/ai-gateway/configuration/bring-your-own-keys/).

:::

1. Create a route.
   - Go to **(Select your gateway)** > **Dynamic Routes** > **Add Route**, and name it (for example, `support`).
   - Open **Editor**.
2. Define conditionals, limits and other settings.
3. Configure model nodes.
   - Example:
     - Node A: Provider OpenAI, Model `o4-mini-high`
     - Node B: Provider OpenAI, Model `gpt-4.1`
4. Save a version.
   - Click **Save** to save the state. You can always roll back to earlier versions from **Versions**.
   - Deploy the version to make it live.
5. Call the route from your code.
   - Use the [OpenAI compatible](/ai-gateway/usage/chat-completion/) endpoint, and use the route name in place of the model, for example, `dynamic/support`.

Commit message:

Enhance dynamic routing instructions with Custom Metadata (#27496)
* Enhance dynamic routing instructions with Custom Metadata

Added a note about using Custom Metadata in conditionals.

* Period to the sentence

src/content/docs/ai-gateway/features/dynamic-routing/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Dynamic routing
pcx_content_type: navigation
order: 1
sidebar:
  order: 4
  group:
    badge: Beta
---

import { CardGrid, LinkTitleCard, YouTube } from "~/components";

## Introduction

Dynamic routing enables you to create request routing flows through a **visual interface** or a **JSON-based configuration**. Instead of hard-coding a single model, with Dynamic Routing you compose a small flow that evaluates conditions, enforces quotas, and chooses models with fallbacks. You can iterate without touching application code—publish a new route version and you’re done. With dynamic routing, you can easily implement advanced use cases such as:

- Directing different segments (paid/not-paid user) to different models
- Restricting each user/project/team with budget/rate limits
- A/B and gradual rollouts

while making it accessible to both developers and non-technical team members.

![Dynamic Routing Overview](~/assets/images/ai-gateway/dynamic-routing.png)

## Core Concepts

- **Route**: A named, versioned flow (for example, dynamic/support) that you can use as instead of the model name in your requests.
- **Nodes**
  - **Start**: Entry point for the route.
  - **Conditional**: If/Else branch based on expressions that reference request body, headers, or metadata (for example, user_plan == "paid").
  - **Percentage**: Routes requests probabilistically across multiple outputs, useful for A/B testing and gradual rollouts.
  - **Model**: Calls a provider/model with the request parameters
  - **Rate Limit**: Enforces number of requests quotas (per your key, per period) and switches to fallback when exceeded.
  - **Budget Limit**: Enforces cost quotas (per your key, per period) and switches to fallback when exceeded.
  - **End**: Terminates the flow and returns the final model response.
- **Metadata**: Arbitrary key-value context attached to the request (for example, userId, orgId, plan). You can pass this from your app so rules can reference it.
- **Versions**: Each change produces a new draft. Deploy to make it live with instant rollback.

## Getting Started

:::caution

Ensure your gateway has [authentication](/ai-gateway/configuration/authentication/) turned on, and you have your upstream providers keys stored with [BYOK](/ai-gateway/configuration/bring-your-own-keys/).

:::

1. Create a route.
   - Go to **(Select your gateway)** > **Dynamic Routes** > **Add Route**, and name it (for example, `support`).
   - Open **Editor**.
2. Define conditionals, limits and other settings.
   - You can use [Custom Metadata](/ai-gateway/observability/custom-metadata/) in your conditionals.
3. Configure model nodes.
   - Example:
     - Node A: Provider OpenAI, Model `o4-mini-high`
     - Node B: Provider OpenAI, Model `gpt-4.1`
4. Save a version.
   - Click **Save** to save the state. You can always roll back to earlier versions from **Versions**.
   - Deploy the version to make it live.
5. Call the route from your code.
   - Use the [OpenAI compatible](/ai-gateway/usage/chat-completion/) endpoint, and use the route name in place of the model, for example, `dynamic/support`.
