src/content/docs/support/troubleshooting/http-status-codes/cloudflare-5xx-errors/error-500.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: troubleshooting
title: Error 500
source: null
---

## Error 500: internal server error

This error indicates a problem with your origin web server, preventing it from fulfilling the request.

### Common causes

The `Error establishing database connection message` is a common HTTP `500` error, typically indicating an origin web server issue. If you encounter this error, contact your hosting provider for assistance.

### Resolution

When dealing with most `5XX` errors, the first step is to reach out to your hosting provider or site administrator to help troubleshoot the issue. Share the necessary [error details](/support/troubleshooting/http-status-codes/cloudflare-5xx-errors/#required-error-details-for-hosting-provider) to your hosting provider to assist troubleshooting the issue.

However, if the `500` error contains `cloudflare` or `cloudflare-nginx` in the HTML response body, contact [Cloudflare support](/support/contacting-cloudflare-support/) and provide the following details:

- Your domain name
- The time and timezone of the `500` error occurrence
- The output of `www.example.com/cdn-cgi/trace` from the browser where the `500` error was observed (replace `www.example.com` with your actual domain and hostname)

:::note

If you observe blank or white pages when visiting your website, confirm whether the issue occurs when [temporarily pausing Cloudflare](/fundamentals/manage-domains/pause-cloudflare/) and contact your hosting provider for assistance.
:::

### Known Cloudflare issue leading to HTTP Error 500

- A configuration issue on Page Rules can generate HTTP Error `500`. Refer to [Page Rules troubleshooting](/rules/page-rules/troubleshooting/general/#error-500-internal-server-error) for more details and resolution.

Commit message:

[Errors] Improve HTTP error documentation based on internal wiki analysis (#27458)
* Improve HTTP error documentation based on internal wiki analysis
- Add Workers-specific causes to Error 500 documentation
- Add troubleshooting steps for Error 500
- Enhance Error 1101 with debugging guidance and common exception types
- Add optimization strategies to Error 1102
- Add cross-links between related errors (500, 1101, 1102)

* Update src/content/docs/support/troubleshooting/http-status-codes/cloudflare-1xxx-errors/error-1101.mdx

Co-authored-by: Daniel Walsh <walshydev@gmail.com>

* Move Worker CPU and memory limit errors to 503 documentation

- Remove CPU time limit and memory limit error entries from error-500.mdx
- Add these entries to error-503.mdx as they are more appropriate for service unavailability
- Update guidance text to reference resource limit issues

* Integrate Walshy improvements to Error 1102 documentation

Apply improvements from commit 984f4f8:

Error 1102 (error-1102.mdx):
- Update title to 'Worker exceeded resource limits'
- Expand to cover both CPU time and memory limits
- Add debugging sections for CPU and memory issues
- Add resolution guidance for memory limits
- Update CPU time limit link to /workers/platform/limits/#cpu-time
- Add note about increasing CPU time limit on Paid plan
- Update related errors to reference Error 503 instead of Error 500

Error 503 (error-503.mdx):
- Add Error 1102 link to memory limit issues entry

---------

Co-authored-by: Daniel Walsh <walshydev@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Daniel Walsh <walshy@cloudflare.com>

src/content/docs/support/troubleshooting/http-status-codes/cloudflare-5xx-errors/error-500.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: troubleshooting
title: Error 500
source: null
---

## Error 500: internal server error

This error indicates a problem with your origin web server, preventing it from fulfilling the request.

### Common causes

The `Error establishing database connection message` is a common HTTP `500` error, typically indicating an origin web server issue. If you encounter this error, contact your hosting provider for assistance.

### Resolution

When dealing with most `5XX` errors, the first step is to reach out to your hosting provider or site administrator to help troubleshoot the issue. Share the necessary [error details](/support/troubleshooting/http-status-codes/cloudflare-5xx-errors/#required-error-details-for-hosting-provider) to your hosting provider to assist troubleshooting the issue.

However, if the `500` error contains `cloudflare` or `cloudflare-nginx` in the HTML response body, contact [Cloudflare support](/support/contacting-cloudflare-support/) and provide the following details:

- Your domain name
- The time and timezone of the `500` error occurrence
- The output of `www.example.com/cdn-cgi/trace` from the browser where the `500` error was observed (replace `www.example.com` with your actual domain and hostname)

:::note

If you observe blank or white pages when visiting your website, confirm whether the issue occurs when [temporarily pausing Cloudflare](/fundamentals/manage-domains/pause-cloudflare/) and contact your hosting provider for assistance.
:::

### Workers-specific causes

Error 500 can also occur when using Cloudflare Workers:

- A Cloudflare Worker throws a runtime JavaScript exception (see [Error 1101](/support/troubleshooting/http-status-codes/cloudflare-1xxx-errors/error-1101/))

If you are using Workers, check the Workers dashboard for error logs and exceptions.

### Troubleshooting steps

1. **Check recent configuration changes**: Review any recent changes to Page Rules, Transform Rules, or Workers that might affect request processing.
2. **Verify origin connectivity**: Ensure your origin server is responding correctly and within acceptable timeframes.
3. **Review Workers logs**: If using Workers, check for JavaScript exceptions or CPU time limit errors in the Workers dashboard.
4. **Test with Cloudflare paused**: Temporarily pause Cloudflare to determine if the issue is origin-related.

### Known Cloudflare issue leading to HTTP Error 500

- A configuration issue on Page Rules can generate HTTP Error `500`. Refer to [Page Rules troubleshooting](/rules/page-rules/troubleshooting/general/#error-500-internal-server-error) for more details and resolution.
