src/content/docs/support/troubleshooting/http-status-codes/4xx-client-error/error-408.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: troubleshooting
title: Error 408
source: null
---

## 408 Request Timeout

The `408 Request Timeout` status code indicates that the origin server did not receive the complete request within a reasonable time frame and does not wish to continue waiting for the connection. This response is not commonly used, as servers often prefer to use the "close" connection option to terminate idle connections

For more details, refer to [RFC 7231](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231).

### Common use cases

This error typically occurs when a client fails to send a complete request within the server's timeout period. Common scenarios include slow network connections, server overload or client-side delays to complete the request.

### Cloudflare-specific information

Cloudflare does not generate `408` errors but may proxy them from the origin server. If a `408` error occurs on a Cloudflare-powered site, it is essential to review the origin server's timeout settings and ensure that the server is not overloaded. Additionally, verify that the client's Internet connection is stable and that the request is being sent promptly.

Commit message:

Update error-408.mdx (#22472)
* Update 4xx-client-error.mdx

re: 408 errors, nginx-ssl will return a 408 error if either a client request header takes >15s to be received at our edge, or if the client body takes >60s - so our documentation is incorrect to state that Cloudflare never returns 408s/they're always proxied from the origin, and this has resulted in customer confusion in at least one recent case.

refer to eg: https://wiki.cfdata.org/display/~gcorral/HTTP+408+Error for further specifics

* Bring changes from original PR diff

---------

Co-authored-by: Rebecca Tamachiro <rtamachiro@cloudflare.com>

src/content/docs/support/troubleshooting/http-status-codes/4xx-client-error/error-408.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: troubleshooting
title: Error 408
source: null
---

## 408 Request Timeout

The `408 Request Timeout` status code indicates that the origin server did not receive the complete request within a reasonable time frame and does not wish to continue waiting for the connection. This response is not commonly used, as servers often prefer to use the "close" connection option to terminate idle connections

For more details, refer to [RFC 7231](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231).

### Common use cases

This error typically occurs when a client fails to send a complete request within the server's timeout period. Common scenarios include slow network connections, server overload or client-side delays to complete the request.

### Cloudflare-specific information

If a `408` error occurs on a Cloudflare-powered site, it is most often being proxied from the origin. In these cases, it is essential to review the origin server's timeout settings and ensure that the server is not overloaded. Additionally, verify that the client's Internet connection is stable and that the request is being sent promptly.

Cloudflare may return a `408` error response if public client requests to our network exceed certain internally-defined timeouts. These timeouts are configured as a protective measure and cannot be changed.
