src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/index.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: navigation
title: Digital experience
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

import { DirectoryListing, Render } from "~/components";

Digital Experience Monitoring (DEX) provides visibility into device, network, and application performance across your Zero Trust organization.

With DEX, you can monitor the state of your [WARP client](/cloudflare-one/team-and-resources/devices/warp/) deployment and resolve issues impacting end-user productivity. DEX is designed for IT and security teams who need to proactively monitor and troubleshoot device and network health across distributed environments. DEX is available on all Cloudflare Zero Trust and SASE plans.

Use DEX to troubleshoot other Zero Trust features:

- Test connectivity to a [SaaS application secured with Access](/cloudflare-one/access-controls/applications/http-apps/saas-apps/).
- Verify that a website routed through [Gateway](/cloudflare-one/traffic-policies/) is reachable from user devices.
- Confirm that users can successfully reach internal resources after configuring a [Tunnel](/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/cloudflare-tunnel/get-started/create-remote-tunnel/).

### Get started

To start using DEX for device, network, and application monitoring:

1. [Create a Zero Trust organization](/cloudflare-one/setup/#create-a-zero-trust-organization).
2. [Install the WARP client](/cloudflare-one/team-and-resources/devices/warp/) and sign in to register your device to the organization.
3. Create [tests](/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/tests/) to verify device connectivity to applications and networks.
4. [Monitor](/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/monitoring/) device and network health across your fleet using real-time and historical metrics.
5. Run [remote captures](/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/remote-captures/) to collect diagnostic logs and packet captures from user devices.
6. Set up [notifications](/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/notifications/) to get alerts when degraded connectivity or application performance is detected.

### Directory

Review all available documentation for DEX capabilities.

<DirectoryListing />

Commit message:

[CF1] how to use DEX, analytics and logs together (#26754)
* [CF1] how to use DEX, analytics and logs together

* updates

* final updates

* final updates

* final updates

* Update src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/index.mdx

Co-authored-by: angelampcosta <92738954+angelampcosta@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: angelampcosta <92738954+angelampcosta@users.noreply.github.com>

src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/index.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: navigation
title: Digital experience
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

import { DirectoryListing, Render } from "~/components";

Digital Experience Monitoring (DEX) provides visibility into device, network, and application performance across your Zero Trust organization.

With DEX, you can monitor the state of your [WARP client](/cloudflare-one/team-and-resources/devices/warp/) deployment and resolve issues impacting end-user productivity. DEX is designed for IT and security teams who need to proactively monitor and troubleshoot device and network health across distributed environments. DEX is available on all Cloudflare Zero Trust and SASE plans.

## When a user reports a problem

If a user notifies that “the connection isn't working” or “performance is slow,” DEX allows you to:

- Use [device monitoring](/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/monitoring/) to check device health and endpoint connectivity.
- Test network health and application responsiveness with [synthetic tests](/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/tests/).
- Identify whether problems originate from the device (such as [issues with the WARP client](/cloudflare-one/team-and-resources/devices/warp/troubleshooting/troubleshooting-guide/)), the network, or Cloudflare.

## Troubleshooting other Cloudflare One features

Use DEX to troubleshoot other Cloudflare One features:

- Test connectivity to a [SaaS application secured with Access](/cloudflare-one/access-controls/applications/http-apps/saas-apps/).
- Verify that a website routed through [Gateway](/cloudflare-one/traffic-policies/) is reachable from user devices.
- Confirm that users can successfully reach internal resources after configuring a [Tunnel](/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/cloudflare-tunnel/get-started/create-remote-tunnel/).

### Get started

To start using DEX for device, network, and application monitoring:

1. [Create a Zero Trust organization](/cloudflare-one/setup/#create-a-zero-trust-organization).
2. [Install the WARP client](/cloudflare-one/team-and-resources/devices/warp/) and sign in to register your device to the organization.
3. Create [tests](/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/tests/) to verify device connectivity to applications and networks.
4. [Monitor](/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/monitoring/) device and network health across your fleet using real-time and historical metrics.
5. Run [remote captures](/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/remote-captures/) to collect diagnostic logs and packet captures from user devices.
6. Set up [notifications](/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/notifications/) to get alerts when degraded connectivity or application performance is detected.

### Directory

Review all available documentation for DEX capabilities.

<DirectoryListing />
