src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/ip-visibility.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: reference
title: IP visibility
sidebar:
  order: 7
---

import { Render, Details } from "~/components";

<Details header="Feature availability">

| System   | Availability | Minimum WARP version |
| -------- | ------------ | -------------------- |
| Windows  | ✅           | 2025.1.861.0         |
| macOS    | ✅           | 2025.1.861.0         |
| Linux    | ✅           | 2025.1.861.0         |
| iOS      | ❌           |                      |
| Android  | ❌           |                      |
| ChromeOS | ❌           |                      |

</Details>

DEX's IP visibility gives administrators insight into three different IP types per device:

1. **Device**: The private IP address of an end-user device.
2. **ISP**: The public IP assigned by the ISP that the end-user device is being routed though.
3. **Gateway**: The router's private IP (the router the end device is connected to.)

:::note

The ISP IP is only visible to users with the [Zero Trust PII role](/cloudflare-one/roles-permissions/#cloudflare-zero-trust-pii).

:::

DEX's IP visibility supports both IPv6 and IPv4 addresses.

IP information is crucial for IT administrators to accurately troubleshoot network issues and identify user locations. IT administrators face challenges like:

- Pinpointing the exact location of a user experiencing issues ("AP 87 is bad.")
- Identifying network access control policy violations ("NAC Policies is not applied properly.")
- Troubleshooting firewall restrictions ("Firewall on VLAN 93 is blocking.")
- Resolving Layer 2 and DHCP related problems.
- Indirectly determining user identity and device location.

## View a device's IP information

To view IP information for a user device:

1. In [Cloudflare One](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/), go to **Team & Resources** > **Devices** > **Your devices**.
2. Select a device, then select **View details**.
3. Under **Details**, scroll down to **IP details**.
4. Review the IP details for your selected device's most recent session.

## View a device's IP history

DEX's IP visibility allows you to review an event log of a device's IP history for the last seven days. To view a device's IP history:

1. In [Cloudflare One](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/), go to **Team & Resources** > **Devices** > **Your devices**.
2. Select a device > **View details** > under **Details**, scroll down to **IP details**.
3. Select **View device history**.
4. View the device's IP history and status from the last seven days.
5. Select a time to view more information about the device at that time.

Refer to [Available metrics](/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/monitoring/#available-metrics) to review **Status** and **Mode** descriptions.

## Troubleshoot with IP visibility

While IP visibility allows you to inspect a device's IP information, use [DEX's live analytics](/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/monitoring/#available-metrics) to review which Cloudflare data center the device is connected to. When traffic leaves a WARP-connected end-user device, it will hit a [Cloudflare data center](/support/troubleshooting/general-troubleshooting/gathering-information-for-troubleshooting-sites/#identify-the-cloudflare-data-center-serving-your-request).

To find which Cloudflare data center a device is connected to:

1. Follow the steps listed in [View IP information](#view-a-devices-ip-history) to find a device's IP information.
2. Select **Device Monitoring** above **Device event log**.
3. Find **Colo** in the **Device details** table to review which Cloudflare data center your selected device's egress traffic is connected to.

Commit message:

[CF1] DEX inline path changes (#26890)
* [CF1] DEX inline path changes

* final updates

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Max Phillips <mphillips@cloudflare.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Max Phillips <mphillips@cloudflare.com>

src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/ip-visibility.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: reference
title: IP visibility
sidebar:
  order: 7
---

import { Render, Details } from "~/components";

<Details header="Feature availability">

| System   | Availability | Minimum WARP version |
| -------- | ------------ | -------------------- |
| Windows  | ✅           | 2025.1.861.0         |
| macOS    | ✅           | 2025.1.861.0         |
| Linux    | ✅           | 2025.1.861.0         |
| iOS      | ❌           |                      |
| Android  | ❌           |                      |
| ChromeOS | ❌           |                      |

</Details>

DEX's IP visibility gives administrators insight into three different IP types per device:

1. **Device**: The private IP address of an end-user device.
2. **ISP**: The public IP assigned by the ISP that the end-user device is being routed though.
3. **Gateway**: The router's private IP (the router the end device is connected to.)

:::note

The ISP IP is only visible to users with the [Zero Trust PII role](/cloudflare-one/roles-permissions/#cloudflare-zero-trust-pii).

:::

DEX's IP visibility supports both IPv6 and IPv4 addresses.

IP information is crucial for IT administrators to accurately troubleshoot network issues and identify user locations. IT administrators face challenges like:

- Pinpointing the exact location of a user experiencing issues ("AP 87 is bad.")
- Identifying network access control policy violations ("NAC Policies is not applied properly.")
- Troubleshooting firewall restrictions ("Firewall on VLAN 93 is blocking.")
- Resolving Layer 2 and DHCP related problems.
- Indirectly determining user identity and device location.

## View a device's IP information

To view IP information for a user device:

1. In [Cloudflare One](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/), go to **Team & Resources** > **Devices** > **Your devices**.
2. Select a device, then select **View details**.
3. Go to **IP details**.
4. Review the IP details for your selected device's most recent session.

## View a device's IP history

DEX's IP visibility allows you to review an event log of a device's IP history for the last seven days. To view a device's IP history:

1. In [Cloudflare One](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/), go to **Team & Resources** > **Devices** > **Your devices**.
2. Select a device > **View details** > go to **IP details**.
3. Select **View all ISPs**.

## Troubleshoot with IP visibility

While IP visibility allows you to inspect a device's IP information, use [DEX's live analytics](/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/monitoring/#available-metrics) to review which Cloudflare data center the device is connected to. When traffic leaves a WARP-connected end-user device, it will hit a [Cloudflare data center](/support/troubleshooting/general-troubleshooting/gathering-information-for-troubleshooting-sites/#identify-the-cloudflare-data-center-serving-your-request).

To find which Cloudflare data center a device is connected to:

1. Follow the steps listed in [View IP information](#view-a-devices-ip-history) to find a device's IP information.
2. On the device page, select **Colocation & client** or find the **Client** table at the top of the page.
3. In the **Client** table, find **Colocation** to review which Cloudflare data center your selected device's egress traffic is connected to.
