src/content/docs/sandbox/guides/manage-files.mdx, before:

---
title: Manage files
pcx_content_type: how-to
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

import { TypeScriptExample } from "~/components";

This guide shows you how to read, write, organize, and synchronize files in the sandbox filesystem.

## Path conventions

File operations support both absolute and relative paths:

- `/workspace` - Default working directory for application files
- `/tmp` - Temporary files (may be cleared)
- `/home` - User home directory

<TypeScriptExample>
```
// Absolute paths
await sandbox.writeFile('/workspace/app.js', code);

// Relative paths (session-aware)
const session = await sandbox.createSession();
await session.exec('cd /workspace/my-project');
await session.writeFile('app.js', code);  // Writes to /workspace/my-project/app.js
await session.writeFile('src/index.js', code);  // Writes to /workspace/my-project/src/index.js
```
</TypeScriptExample>

## Write files

<TypeScriptExample>
```
import { getSandbox } from '@cloudflare/sandbox';

const sandbox = getSandbox(env.Sandbox, 'my-sandbox');

// Write text file
await sandbox.writeFile('/workspace/app.js', `console.log('Hello from sandbox!');`);

// Write JSON
const config = { name: 'my-app', version: '1.0.0' };
await sandbox.writeFile('/workspace/config.json', JSON.stringify(config, null, 2));

// Write binary file (base64)
const buffer = await fetch(imageUrl).then(r => r.arrayBuffer());
const base64 = btoa(String.fromCharCode(...new Uint8Array(buffer)));
await sandbox.writeFile('/workspace/image.png', base64, { encoding: 'base64' });
```
</TypeScriptExample>

## Read files

<TypeScriptExample>
```
// Read text file
const file = await sandbox.readFile('/workspace/app.js');
console.log(file.content);

// Read and parse JSON
const configFile = await sandbox.readFile('/workspace/config.json');
const config = JSON.parse(configFile.content);

// Read binary file
const imageFile = await sandbox.readFile('/workspace/image.png', { encoding: 'base64' });
return new Response(atob(imageFile.content), {
  headers: { 'Content-Type': 'image/png' }
});
```
</TypeScriptExample>

## Organize files

<TypeScriptExample>
```
// Create directories
await sandbox.mkdir('/workspace/src', { recursive: true });
await sandbox.mkdir('/workspace/tests', { recursive: true });

// Rename file
await sandbox.renameFile('/workspace/draft.txt', '/workspace/final.txt');

// Move file
await sandbox.moveFile('/tmp/download.txt', '/workspace/data.txt');

// Delete file
await sandbox.deleteFile('/workspace/temp.txt');
```
</TypeScriptExample>

## Batch operations

Write multiple files in parallel:

<TypeScriptExample>
```
const files = {
  '/workspace/src/app.js': 'console.log("app");',
  '/workspace/src/utils.js': 'console.log("utils");',
  '/workspace/README.md': '# My Project'
};

await Promise.all(
  Object.entries(files).map(([path, content]) =>
    sandbox.writeFile(path, content)
  )
);
```
</TypeScriptExample>

## Check if file exists

<TypeScriptExample>
```
try {
  await sandbox.readFile('/workspace/config.json');
  console.log('File exists');
} catch (error) {
  if (error.code === 'FILE_NOT_FOUND') {
    // Create default config
    await sandbox.writeFile('/workspace/config.json', '{}');
  }
}
```
</TypeScriptExample>

## Best practices

- **Use `/workspace`** - Default working directory for app files
- **Use absolute paths** - Always use full paths like `/workspace/file.txt`
- **Batch operations** - Use `Promise.all()` for multiple independent file writes
- **Create parent directories** - Use `recursive: true` when creating nested paths
- **Handle errors** - Check for `FILE_NOT_FOUND` errors gracefully

## Troubleshooting

### Directory doesn't exist

Create parent directories first:

<TypeScriptExample>
```
// Create directory, then write file
await sandbox.mkdir('/workspace/data', { recursive: true });
await sandbox.writeFile('/workspace/data/file.txt', content);
```
</TypeScriptExample>

### Binary file encoding

Use base64 for binary files:

<TypeScriptExample>
```
// Write binary
await sandbox.writeFile('/workspace/image.png', base64Data, {
  encoding: 'base64'
});

// Read binary
const file = await sandbox.readFile('/workspace/image.png', {
  encoding: 'base64'
});
```
</TypeScriptExample>

## Related resources

- [Files API reference](/sandbox/api/files/) - Complete method documentation
- [Execute commands guide](/sandbox/guides/execute-commands/) - Run file operations with commands
- [Git workflows guide](/sandbox/guides/git-workflows/) - Clone and manage repositories
- [Code Interpreter guide](/sandbox/guides/code-execution/) - Generate and execute code files

Commit message:

Cleanup sandbox docs (#25944)
* Improve sandbox getting started links

* Add descriptions to sandbox tutorials

* Fix tutorials

* Cross-reference commands & processes better

* Fix the architecture diagram

* Clarify persistence information

* Update pre-installed software

* Document preview URL setup

* Clarify preview url usage

* Fix sandbox configuration information

src/content/docs/sandbox/guides/manage-files.mdx, after:

---
title: Manage files
pcx_content_type: how-to
sidebar:
  order: 2
description: Read, write, organize, and synchronize files in the sandbox.
---

import { TypeScriptExample } from "~/components";

This guide shows you how to read, write, organize, and synchronize files in the sandbox filesystem.

## Path conventions

File operations support both absolute and relative paths:

- `/workspace` - Default working directory for application files
- `/tmp` - Temporary files (may be cleared)
- `/home` - User home directory

<TypeScriptExample>
```
// Absolute paths
await sandbox.writeFile('/workspace/app.js', code);

// Relative paths (session-aware)
const session = await sandbox.createSession();
await session.exec('cd /workspace/my-project');
await session.writeFile('app.js', code);  // Writes to /workspace/my-project/app.js
await session.writeFile('src/index.js', code);  // Writes to /workspace/my-project/src/index.js
```
</TypeScriptExample>

## Write files

<TypeScriptExample>
```
import { getSandbox } from '@cloudflare/sandbox';

const sandbox = getSandbox(env.Sandbox, 'my-sandbox');

// Write text file
await sandbox.writeFile('/workspace/app.js', `console.log('Hello from sandbox!');`);

// Write JSON
const config = { name: 'my-app', version: '1.0.0' };
await sandbox.writeFile('/workspace/config.json', JSON.stringify(config, null, 2));

// Write binary file (base64)
const buffer = await fetch(imageUrl).then(r => r.arrayBuffer());
const base64 = btoa(String.fromCharCode(...new Uint8Array(buffer)));
await sandbox.writeFile('/workspace/image.png', base64, { encoding: 'base64' });
```
</TypeScriptExample>

## Read files

<TypeScriptExample>
```
// Read text file
const file = await sandbox.readFile('/workspace/app.js');
console.log(file.content);

// Read and parse JSON
const configFile = await sandbox.readFile('/workspace/config.json');
const config = JSON.parse(configFile.content);

// Read binary file
const imageFile = await sandbox.readFile('/workspace/image.png', { encoding: 'base64' });
return new Response(atob(imageFile.content), {
  headers: { 'Content-Type': 'image/png' }
});
```
</TypeScriptExample>

## Organize files

<TypeScriptExample>
```
// Create directories
await sandbox.mkdir('/workspace/src', { recursive: true });
await sandbox.mkdir('/workspace/tests', { recursive: true });

// Rename file
await sandbox.renameFile('/workspace/draft.txt', '/workspace/final.txt');

// Move file
await sandbox.moveFile('/tmp/download.txt', '/workspace/data.txt');

// Delete file
await sandbox.deleteFile('/workspace/temp.txt');
```
</TypeScriptExample>

## Batch operations

Write multiple files in parallel:

<TypeScriptExample>
```
const files = {
  '/workspace/src/app.js': 'console.log("app");',
  '/workspace/src/utils.js': 'console.log("utils");',
  '/workspace/README.md': '# My Project'
};

await Promise.all(
  Object.entries(files).map(([path, content]) =>
    sandbox.writeFile(path, content)
  )
);
```
</TypeScriptExample>

## Check if file exists

<TypeScriptExample>
```
try {
  await sandbox.readFile('/workspace/config.json');
  console.log('File exists');
} catch (error) {
  if (error.code === 'FILE_NOT_FOUND') {
    // Create default config
    await sandbox.writeFile('/workspace/config.json', '{}');
  }
}
```
</TypeScriptExample>

## Best practices

- **Use `/workspace`** - Default working directory for app files
- **Use absolute paths** - Always use full paths like `/workspace/file.txt`
- **Batch operations** - Use `Promise.all()` for multiple independent file writes
- **Create parent directories** - Use `recursive: true` when creating nested paths
- **Handle errors** - Check for `FILE_NOT_FOUND` errors gracefully

## Troubleshooting

### Directory doesn't exist

Create parent directories first:

<TypeScriptExample>
```
// Create directory, then write file
await sandbox.mkdir('/workspace/data', { recursive: true });
await sandbox.writeFile('/workspace/data/file.txt', content);
```
</TypeScriptExample>

### Binary file encoding

Use base64 for binary files:

<TypeScriptExample>
```
// Write binary
await sandbox.writeFile('/workspace/image.png', base64Data, {
  encoding: 'base64'
});

// Read binary
const file = await sandbox.readFile('/workspace/image.png', {
  encoding: 'base64'
});
```
</TypeScriptExample>

## Related resources

- [Files API reference](/sandbox/api/files/) - Complete method documentation
- [Execute commands guide](/sandbox/guides/execute-commands/) - Run file operations with commands
- [Git workflows guide](/sandbox/guides/git-workflows/) - Clone and manage repositories
- [Code Interpreter guide](/sandbox/guides/code-execution/) - Generate and execute code files
