src/content/docs/ai-search/platform/limits-pricing.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: Limits & pricing
sidebar:
  order: 4
---

## Pricing

During the open beta, AI Search is **free to enable**. When you create an AI Search instance, it provisions and runs on top of Cloudflare services in your account. These resources are **billed as part of your Cloudflare usage**, and includes:

| Service & Pricing                                | Description                                                                               |
| ------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [**R2**](/r2/pricing/)                           | Stores your source data                                                                   |
| [**Vectorize**](/vectorize/platform/pricing/)    | Stores vector embeddings and powers semantic search                                       |
| [**Workers AI**](/workers-ai/platform/pricing/)  | Handles image-to-Markdown conversion, embedding, query rewriting, and response generation |
| [**AI Gateway**](/ai-gateway/reference/pricing/) | Monitors and controls model usage                                                         |
| [**Browser Rendering**](/browser-rendering/platform/pricing/)     | Loads dynamic JavaScript content during [website](/ai-search/configuration/data-source/website/) crawling with the Render option                            |

For more information about how each resource is used within AI Search, reference [How AI Search works](/ai-search/concepts/how-ai-search-works/).

## Limits

The following limits currently apply to AI Search during the open beta:

| Limit                             | Value                                                                                                                                                             |
| --------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Max AI Search instances per account | 10                                                                                                                                                                |
| Max files per AI Search             | 100,000                                                                                                                                                           |
| Max file size                     | 4 MB |

These limits are subject to change as AI Search evolves beyond open beta.

Commit message:

Request limit increase in AI Search and Vectorize (#25835)

src/content/docs/ai-search/platform/limits-pricing.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: Limits & pricing
sidebar:
  order: 4
---

## Pricing

During the open beta, AI Search is **free to enable**. When you create an AI Search instance, it provisions and runs on top of Cloudflare services in your account. These resources are **billed as part of your Cloudflare usage**, and includes:

| Service & Pricing                                | Description                                                                               |
| ------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [**R2**](/r2/pricing/)                           | Stores your source data                                                                   |
| [**Vectorize**](/vectorize/platform/pricing/)    | Stores vector embeddings and powers semantic search                                       |
| [**Workers AI**](/workers-ai/platform/pricing/)  | Handles image-to-Markdown conversion, embedding, query rewriting, and response generation |
| [**AI Gateway**](/ai-gateway/reference/pricing/) | Monitors and controls model usage                                                         |
| [**Browser Rendering**](/browser-rendering/platform/pricing/)     | Loads dynamic JavaScript content during [website](/ai-search/configuration/data-source/website/) crawling with the Render option                            |

For more information about how each resource is used within AI Search, reference [How AI Search works](/ai-search/concepts/how-ai-search-works/).

## Limits

The following limits currently apply to AI Search during the open beta:

:::note[Need a higher limit?]
To request an adjustment to a limit, complete the [Limit Increase Request Form](https://forms.gle/wnizxrEUW33Y15CT8). If the limit can be increased, Cloudflare will contact you with next steps.
:::

| Limit                             | Value                                                                                                                                                             |
| --------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Max AI Search instances per account | 10                                                                                                                                                                |
| Max files per AI Search             | 100,000                                                                                                                                                           |
| Max file size                     | 4 MB |

These limits are subject to change as AI Search evolves beyond open beta.
