src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/tutorials/r2-logs.mdx, before:

---
reviewed: 2023-11-30
category: 🔐 Zero Trust
difficulty: Beginner
pcx_content_type: tutorial
title: Use Cloudflare R2 as a Zero Trust log destination
products:
  - R2
---

import { DashButton } from "~/components";

:::note
Only available on Zero Trust Enterprise plans.
:::

This tutorial covers how to build a [Cloudflare R2 bucket](/r2/buckets/) to store logs, and how to connect the bucket to the Zero Trust [Logpush service](/cloudflare-one/insights/logs/logpush/) to store logs persistently and export them into other tools.

## Before you begin

- Ensure Cloudflare R2 and the Zero Trust Logpush integration are included in your plan. For more information, contact your account team.

## Create a Cloudflare R2 bucket

1. In the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/), go to the **R2 Overview** page.

   <DashButton url="/?to=/:account/r2/overview" />

2. Select **Create bucket**.
3. Enter an identifiable name for the bucket, then select **Create bucket**.

## Create an R2 API token

1. Return to **R2**, then select **Manage R2 API tokens**.
2. Select **Create API token**.
3. In **Permissions**, select **Object Read & Write**.
4. In **Specify bucket(s)**, choose _Apply to specific buckets only_. Select the bucket you created.
5. Configure other token settings to your preferences.
6. Select **Create API Token**.
7. Copy the **Access Key ID**, **Secret Access Key**, and endpoint URL values. You will not be able to access these values again.
8. Select **Finish**.

## Connect a Zero Trust Logpush job

1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/), go to **Logs** > **Logpush**.
2. Select **Connect a service**.
3. Choose which data sets and fields you want to send to your bucket. Select **Next**.
4. Select **S3 Compatible**.
5. In **S3 Compatible Bucket Path**, enter the name of your bucket.
6. In **Bucket region**, enter `auto`.
7. Enter the values for **Access Key ID**, **Secret Access Key**, and **Endpoint URL** in their corresponding fields.
8. Select **Push**. If prompted, you do not need to prove ownership with a token challenge.

The Logpush job will send the selected Zero Trust logs to your R2 bucket.

Commit message:

Ai descriptions util (#25736)
* Edits

* final files

* remove tab

* fix more tabs

* fixed steps

* fix

* final fix

* Update src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/tutorials/okta-u2f.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/tutorials/vnc-client-in-browser.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/r2/tutorials/cloudflare-access.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/pages/how-to/deploy-a-wordpress-site.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/pages/migrations/migrating-from-netlify.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/reference-architecture/design-guides/network-vpn-migration.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/ssl/keyless-ssl/hardware-security-modules/ibm-cloud-hsm.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/turnstile/tutorials/excluding-turnstile-from-e2e-tests.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* update

---------

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/tutorials/r2-logs.mdx, after:

---
reviewed: 2023-11-30
category: 🔐 Zero Trust
difficulty: Beginner
pcx_content_type: tutorial
title: Use Cloudflare R2 as a Zero Trust log destination
products:
  - R2
description: >-
  This tutorial covers how to build a Cloudflare R2 bucket to store Zero Trust logs. It also shows how to connect the bucket to the Zero Trust Logpush service.
---

import { DashButton } from "~/components";

:::note
Only available on Zero Trust Enterprise plans.
:::

This tutorial covers how to build a [Cloudflare R2 bucket](/r2/buckets/) to store logs, and how to connect the bucket to the Zero Trust [Logpush service](/cloudflare-one/insights/logs/logpush/) to store logs persistently and export them into other tools.

## Before you begin

- Ensure Cloudflare R2 and the Zero Trust Logpush integration are included in your plan. For more information, contact your account team.

## Create a Cloudflare R2 bucket

1. In the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/), go to the **R2 Overview** page.

   <DashButton url="/?to=/:account/r2/overview" />

2. Select **Create bucket**.
3. Enter an identifiable name for the bucket, then select **Create bucket**.

## Create an R2 API token

1. Return to **R2**, then select **Manage R2 API tokens**.
2. Select **Create API token**.
3. In **Permissions**, select **Object Read & Write**.
4. In **Specify bucket(s)**, choose _Apply to specific buckets only_. Select the bucket you created.
5. Configure other token settings to your preferences.
6. Select **Create API Token**.
7. Copy the **Access Key ID**, **Secret Access Key**, and endpoint URL values. You will not be able to access these values again.
8. Select **Finish**.

## Connect a Zero Trust Logpush job

1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/), go to **Logs** > **Logpush**.
2. Select **Connect a service**.
3. Choose which data sets and fields you want to send to your bucket. Select **Next**.
4. Select **S3 Compatible**.
5. In **S3 Compatible Bucket Path**, enter the name of your bucket.
6. In **Bucket region**, enter `auto`.
7. Enter the values for **Access Key ID**, **Secret Access Key**, and **Endpoint URL** in their corresponding fields.
8. Select **Push**. If prompted, you do not need to prove ownership with a token challenge.

The Logpush job will send the selected Zero Trust logs to your R2 bucket.
