src/content/docs/ssl/edge-certificates/custom-certificates/uploading.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Manage custom certificates
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

import {
	Details,
	GlossaryTooltip,
	Render,
	TabItem,
	Tabs,
	APIRequest,
	DashButton,
} from "~/components";

This page lists Cloudflare requirements for custom certificates and explains how to upload and update these certificates using Cloudflare dashboard or API.

## Certificate requirements

Before accepting custom certificates, Cloudflare parses them and checks for validity according to a list of requirements.

<Details header="Full list of requirements">

Each custom certificate you upload must:

- Be encoded in PEM format (PEM, PKCS#7, or PKCS#12). See [Converting Using OpenSSL](https://www.sslshopper.com/article-most-common-openssl-commands.html) for conversion examples.
- Not have a [key file password](/ssl/edge-certificates/custom-certificates/remove-file-key-password/).
- Not be expiring in less than 14 days from time of upload.
- Have a subject alternative name (SAN) matching at least one hostname in the zone where it is being uploaded.
- Use a private key greater than or equal to a minimum length. Currently, 2048 bit for RSA and 225 bit for ECDSA.
- Be publicly trusted by a major browser. This does not apply for certificates that specify `User Defined` as their [bundling methodology](/ssl/edge-certificates/custom-certificates/bundling-methodologies/).
- Be one of the following certificate types:
  - Unified Communications Certificates (UCC)
  - Extended Validation (EV)
  - Domain Validated (DV)
  - Organization Validated (OV)

</Details>

---

## Upload a custom certificate

:::caution
When using `compatible` or `modern` [bundling](/ssl/edge-certificates/custom-certificates/bundling-methodologies), make sure to upload only the leaf certificate. This will allow Cloudflare to properly handle [the expiration of intermediate and root certificates](/ssl/edge-certificates/custom-certificates/bundling-methodologies/#intermediate-and-root-certificates).
:::

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

To upload a custom SSL certificate in the dashboard:

1. In the Cloudflare dashboard, go to the SSL/TLS **Edge Certificates** page.

<DashButton url="/?to=/:account/:zone/ssl-tls/edge-certificates" />

2. In **Edge Certificates**, select **Upload Custom SSL Certificate**.

3. Copy and paste relevant values into **SSL Certificate** and **Private key** text areas (or select **Paste from file**).

   :::note
   If doing this manually, include the `---BEGIN CERTIFICATE---` and `---END CERTIFICATE---` like the placeholder text.
   :::

4. Choose the appropriate [**Bundle Method**](/ssl/edge-certificates/custom-certificates/bundling-methodologies/).

5. Select a value for [**Private Key Restriction**](/ssl/edge-certificates/custom-certificates/#geo-key-manager-private-key-restriction).

6. Select a value for **Legacy Client Support**, which specifies <GlossaryTooltip term="Server Name Indication (SNI)" link="/ssl/reference/browser-compatibility/#non-sni-support">Server Name Indication (SNI)</GlossaryTooltip> support:
   - **Modern (recommended)**: SNI only
   - **Legacy**: Supports non-SNI
     :::caution

     Custom certificates of the type `legacy_custom` are not compatible with [BYOIP](/byoip/).
     :::

7. Select **Upload Custom Certificate**. If you see an error for `The key you provided does not match the certificate`, contact your Certificate Authority to ensure the private key matches the certificate.

8. (optional) [Add a CAA DNS record](/ssl/edge-certificates/caa-records/).

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API">

The following call will upload a certificate for use with `app.example.com`. Cloudflare will automatically bundle the certificate with a certificate chain optimized for maximum compatibility with browsers.

:::caution

Note that if you are using an ECC key generated by OpenSSL, you will need to first remove the `-----BEGIN EC PARAMETERS-----...-----END EC PARAMETERS-----` section of the file.
:::

1. Update the file and build the payload

<Render file="custom-cert-file-example" product="ssl" />

```bash
request_body=$(< <(cat <<EOF
{
  "certificate": "$MYCERT",
  "private_key": "$MYKEY",
  "bundle_method": "ubiquitous"
}
EOF
))
```

You can optionally add [geographic restrictions](https://blog.cloudflare.com/introducing-cloudflare-geo-key-manager/) that specify where your private key can physically be decrypted:

```bash
request_body=$(< <(cat <<EOF
{
  "certificate": "$MYCERT",
  "private_key": "$MYKEY",
  "bundle_method": "ubiquitous",
  "geo_restrictions": {"label": "us"}'
}
EOF
))
```

You can also enable support for legacy clients which do not include SNI in the TLS handshake.

```bash
request_body=$(< <(cat <<EOF
{
  "certificate": "$MYCERT",
  "private_key": "$MYKEY",
  "bundle_method": "ubiquitous",
  "geo_restrictions": {"label": "us"}',
  "type":"sni_custom"
}
EOF
))
```

`sni_custom` is recommended by Cloudflare. Use `legacy_custom` when a specific client requires non-SNI support. The Cloudflare API treats all Custom SSL certificates as Legacy by default.

:::caution

Custom certificates of the type `legacy_custom` are not compatible with [BYOIP](/byoip/).
:::

2. Upload your certificate and key

Use the [POST](/api/resources/custom_certificates/methods/create/) endpoint to upload your certificate and key.

```bash
curl https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/zones/{zone_id}/custom_certificates \
--header "X-Auth-Email: <EMAIL>" \
--header "X-Auth-Key: <API_KEY>" \
--header "Content-Type: application/json" \
--data "$request_body"
```

3. (Optional) Add a CAA record.

<Render file="caa-records-definition" product="ssl" />

For more guidance, refer to [Create a CAA record](/ssl/edge-certificates/caa-records/).

</TabItem> </Tabs>

---

## Update an existing custom certificate

Before you update an existing custom certificate, you might want to consider having active [universal](/ssl/edge-certificates/universal-ssl/) or [advanced](/ssl/edge-certificates/advanced-certificate-manager/) certificates as fallback options. Go to [**SSL/TLS** > **Edge Certificates**](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/:zone/ssl-tls/edge-certificates) to check a list of hostnames and status of the edge certificates in your zone.

If you are on an Enterprise plan and want to update a custom (modern) certificate, also consider requesting access to [Staging environment (Beta)](/ssl/edge-certificates/staging-environment/).

Replacing a custom certificate following these steps does not lead to any downtime. No connections will be terminated and new connections will use the new certificate. The old certificate will only actually be deleted when the new certificate is uploaded and active.

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

To update a certificate in the dashboard:

1. In the Cloudflare dashboard, go to the SSL/TLS **Edge Certificates** page.

<DashButton url="/?to=/:account/:zone/ssl-tls/edge-certificates" />

2. In **Edge Certificates**, locate a custom certificate and click on it to expand.

3. Select the wrench icon and select **Replace SSL certificate and key**.

4. Follow the same steps as [upload a new certificate](#upload-a-custom-certificate).

</TabItem> <TabItem label="API">

To update a certificate using the API, send a [`PATCH`](/api/resources/custom_certificates/methods/edit/) command.

</TabItem> </Tabs>

:::note

To update the **Private Key Restriction** setting of a certificate, delete and re-add the certificate.

:::

Commit message:

[SSL] dvc-conflicting-records partial and details on custom certs (#25871)
* Create dvc-conflicting-records partial and add to CF4SaaS

* Add instructions on how to delete custom certificates

src/content/docs/ssl/edge-certificates/custom-certificates/uploading.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Manage custom certificates
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

import {
	Details,
	GlossaryTooltip,
	Render,
	TabItem,
	Tabs,
	APIRequest,
	DashButton,
} from "~/components";

This page lists Cloudflare requirements for custom certificates and explains how to upload and update these certificates using Cloudflare dashboard or API.

## Certificate requirements

Before accepting custom certificates, Cloudflare parses them and checks for validity according to a list of requirements.

<Details header="Full list of requirements">

Each custom certificate you upload must:

- Be encoded in PEM format (PEM, PKCS#7, or PKCS#12). See [Converting Using OpenSSL](https://www.sslshopper.com/article-most-common-openssl-commands.html) for conversion examples.
- Not have a [key file password](/ssl/edge-certificates/custom-certificates/remove-file-key-password/).
- Not be expiring in less than 14 days from time of upload.
- Have a subject alternative name (SAN) matching at least one hostname in the zone where it is being uploaded.
- Use a private key greater than or equal to a minimum length. Currently, 2048 bit for RSA and 225 bit for ECDSA.
- Be publicly trusted by a major browser. This does not apply for certificates that specify `User Defined` as their [bundling methodology](/ssl/edge-certificates/custom-certificates/bundling-methodologies/).
- Be one of the following certificate types:
  - Unified Communications Certificates (UCC)
  - Extended Validation (EV)
  - Domain Validated (DV)
  - Organization Validated (OV)

</Details>

---

## Upload a custom certificate

:::caution
When using `compatible` or `modern` [bundling](/ssl/edge-certificates/custom-certificates/bundling-methodologies), make sure to upload only the leaf certificate. This will allow Cloudflare to properly handle [the expiration of intermediate and root certificates](/ssl/edge-certificates/custom-certificates/bundling-methodologies/#intermediate-and-root-certificates).
:::

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

To upload a custom SSL certificate in the dashboard:

1. In the Cloudflare dashboard, go to the SSL/TLS **Edge Certificates** page.

<DashButton url="/?to=/:account/:zone/ssl-tls/edge-certificates" />

2. In **Edge Certificates**, select **Upload Custom SSL Certificate**.

3. Copy and paste relevant values into **SSL Certificate** and **Private key** text areas (or select **Paste from file**).

   :::note
   If doing this manually, include the `---BEGIN CERTIFICATE---` and `---END CERTIFICATE---` like the placeholder text.
   :::

4. Choose the appropriate [**Bundle Method**](/ssl/edge-certificates/custom-certificates/bundling-methodologies/).

5. Select a value for [**Private Key Restriction**](/ssl/edge-certificates/custom-certificates/#geo-key-manager-private-key-restriction).

6. Select a value for **Legacy Client Support**, which specifies <GlossaryTooltip term="Server Name Indication (SNI)" link="/ssl/reference/browser-compatibility/#non-sni-support">Server Name Indication (SNI)</GlossaryTooltip> support:
   - **Modern (recommended)**: SNI only
   - **Legacy**: Supports non-SNI
     :::caution

     Custom certificates of the type `legacy_custom` are not compatible with [BYOIP](/byoip/).
     :::

7. Select **Upload Custom Certificate**. If you see an error for `The key you provided does not match the certificate`, contact your Certificate Authority to ensure the private key matches the certificate.

8. (optional) [Add a CAA DNS record](/ssl/edge-certificates/caa-records/).

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API">

The following call will upload a certificate for use with `app.example.com`. Cloudflare will automatically bundle the certificate with a certificate chain optimized for maximum compatibility with browsers.

:::caution

Note that if you are using an ECC key generated by OpenSSL, you will need to first remove the `-----BEGIN EC PARAMETERS-----...-----END EC PARAMETERS-----` section of the file.
:::

1. Update the file and build the payload

<Render file="custom-cert-file-example" product="ssl" />

```bash
request_body=$(< <(cat <<EOF
{
  "certificate": "$MYCERT",
  "private_key": "$MYKEY",
  "bundle_method": "ubiquitous"
}
EOF
))
```

You can optionally add [geographic restrictions](https://blog.cloudflare.com/introducing-cloudflare-geo-key-manager/) that specify where your private key can physically be decrypted:

```bash
request_body=$(< <(cat <<EOF
{
  "certificate": "$MYCERT",
  "private_key": "$MYKEY",
  "bundle_method": "ubiquitous",
  "geo_restrictions": {"label": "us"}'
}
EOF
))
```

You can also enable support for legacy clients which do not include SNI in the TLS handshake.

```bash
request_body=$(< <(cat <<EOF
{
  "certificate": "$MYCERT",
  "private_key": "$MYKEY",
  "bundle_method": "ubiquitous",
  "geo_restrictions": {"label": "us"}',
  "type":"sni_custom"
}
EOF
))
```

`sni_custom` is recommended by Cloudflare. Use `legacy_custom` when a specific client requires non-SNI support. The Cloudflare API treats all Custom SSL certificates as Legacy by default.

:::caution

Custom certificates of the type `legacy_custom` are not compatible with [BYOIP](/byoip/).
:::

2. Upload your certificate and key

Use the [POST](/api/resources/custom_certificates/methods/create/) endpoint to upload your certificate and key.

```bash
curl https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/zones/{zone_id}/custom_certificates \
--header "X-Auth-Email: <EMAIL>" \
--header "X-Auth-Key: <API_KEY>" \
--header "Content-Type: application/json" \
--data "$request_body"
```

3. (Optional) Add a CAA record.

<Render file="caa-records-definition" product="ssl" />

For more guidance, refer to [Create a CAA record](/ssl/edge-certificates/caa-records/).

</TabItem> </Tabs>

---

## Update an existing custom certificate

Before you update an existing custom certificate, you might want to consider having active [universal](/ssl/edge-certificates/universal-ssl/) or [advanced](/ssl/edge-certificates/advanced-certificate-manager/) certificates as fallback options. Go to [**SSL/TLS** > **Edge Certificates**](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/:zone/ssl-tls/edge-certificates) to check a list of hostnames and status of the edge certificates in your zone.

If you are on an Enterprise plan and want to update a custom (modern) certificate, also consider requesting access to [Staging environment (Beta)](/ssl/edge-certificates/staging-environment/).

Replacing a custom certificate following these steps does not lead to any downtime. No connections will be terminated and new connections will use the new certificate. The old certificate will only actually be deleted when the new certificate is uploaded and active.

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

To update a certificate in the dashboard:

1. In the Cloudflare dashboard, go to the SSL/TLS **Edge Certificates** page.

<DashButton url="/?to=/:account/:zone/ssl-tls/edge-certificates" />

2. In **Edge Certificates**, locate a custom certificate and select it to expand.

3. Select the wrench button and choose **Replace SSL certificate and key**.

4. Follow the same steps as [upload a new certificate](#upload-a-custom-certificate).

</TabItem> <TabItem label="API">

To update a certificate using the API, send a [`PATCH`](/api/resources/custom_certificates/methods/edit/) command.

</TabItem> </Tabs>

:::note

To update the **Private Key Restriction** setting of a certificate, delete and re-add the certificate.

:::

---

## Delete a custom certificate

1. In the Cloudflare dashboard, go to the SSL/TLS **Edge Certificates** page.

<DashButton url="/?to=/:account/:zone/ssl-tls/edge-certificates" />

2. In **Edge Certificates**, locate a custom certificate and select it to expand.
3. Select the cross button.
4. Select **Confirm** to delete the certificate.
