src/content/partials/cloudflare-for-platforms/create-custom-hostname.mdx, before:

---
{}

---

1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com) and select your account.
2. Select your Cloudflare for SaaS application.
3. Navigate to **SSL/TLS** > **Custom Hostnames**.
4. Click **Add Custom Hostname**.
5. Add your customer's hostname `app.customer.com` and set the relevant options, including:
    - The [minimum TLS version](/ssl/reference/protocols/).
    - Defining whether you want to use a certificate provided by Cloudflare or [upload a custom certificate](/cloudflare-for-platforms/cloudflare-for-saas/security/certificate-management/custom-certificates/uploading-certificates/).
    - Selecting the [certificate authority (CA)](/ssl/reference/certificate-authorities/) that will issue the certificate.
    - Choosing the [validation method](/cloudflare-for-platforms/cloudflare-for-saas/security/certificate-management/issue-and-validate/validate-certificates/).
    - Whether you want to **Enable wildcard**, which adds a `*.<custom-hostname>` SAN to the custom hostname certificate. For more details, refer to [Hostname priority](/ssl/reference/certificate-and-hostname-priority/#hostname-priority).
    - Choosing a value for [Custom origin server](/cloudflare-for-platforms/cloudflare-for-saas/start/advanced-settings/custom-origin/).
6. Click **Add Custom Hostname**.

Commit message:

DashButton for Partial files and some misc (#25045)
* Partials & straggler - dash button

* Added DashButton

* More DashButton additions

* Apply suggestion from @ToriLindsay

Co-authored-by: ToriLindsay <tgalatro@cloudflare.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: ToriLindsay <tgalatro@cloudflare.com>

src/content/partials/cloudflare-for-platforms/create-custom-hostname.mdx, after:

---
{}

---

import { DashButton } from "~/components";

1. Log in to the Cloudflare dashboard and select your account.

<DashButton url="/?to=/:account/home" />

2. Select your Cloudflare for SaaS application.
3. Navigate to **SSL/TLS** > **Custom Hostnames**.
4. Click **Add Custom Hostname**.
5. Add your customer's hostname `app.customer.com` and set the relevant options, including:
    - The [minimum TLS version](/ssl/reference/protocols/).
    - Defining whether you want to use a certificate provided by Cloudflare or [upload a custom certificate](/cloudflare-for-platforms/cloudflare-for-saas/security/certificate-management/custom-certificates/uploading-certificates/).
    - Selecting the [certificate authority (CA)](/ssl/reference/certificate-authorities/) that will issue the certificate.
    - Choosing the [validation method](/cloudflare-for-platforms/cloudflare-for-saas/security/certificate-management/issue-and-validate/validate-certificates/).
    - Whether you want to **Enable wildcard**, which adds a `*.<custom-hostname>` SAN to the custom hostname certificate. For more details, refer to [Hostname priority](/ssl/reference/certificate-and-hostname-priority/#hostname-priority).
    - Choosing a value for [Custom origin server](/cloudflare-for-platforms/cloudflare-for-saas/start/advanced-settings/custom-origin/).
6. Click **Add Custom Hostname**.
