src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/integrations/identity-providers/facebook-login.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Facebook
---

Use these steps to set up Facebook as your identity provider.

1. Go to [developers.facebook.com](https://developers.facebook.com/).

2. Select **Create App** at the top-right. The **Create a New App ID** card displays.

3. Enter the **Display Name** and **Contact Email**.

4. Select **Create App ID**. The **Create a New App ID** window displays.

5. Enter the CAPTCHA code to proceed.

6. Select **Submit**.

7. On the **Facebook Login** card, select **Set Up**. A Quickstart card displays offering platform choices.

8. Select **Web**. The **Web** tab displays.

9. Enter your **Site URL**.

10. Select **Save**.

11. Select **Continue**. Ignore any JavaScript page that suggests that you install it on your site.

12. Select **Settings** > **Basic**.

13. Copy the **App ID** and **App Secret**.

    ![Facebook Settings with App ID and App Secret highlighted](~/assets/images/cloudflare-one/identity/facebook/fb6.png)

14. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com), go to **Settings** > **Authentication**.

15. Under **Login methods**, select **Add new**.

16. Fill in the **App ID** and **App Secret** obtained from Facebook.

17. (Optional) Enable [Proof of Key Exchange (PKCE)](https://www.oauth.com/oauth2-servers/pkce/). PKCE will be performed on all login attempts.

18. Select **Save**.

19. On [developers.facebook.com](https://developers.facebook.com/), select **Facebook Login** > **Settings** on the left-hand menu.

20. Ensure that the **Use Strict Mode for Redirect URIs** slider is set to **Yes**.

21. In the **Valid OAuth redirect URIs** field, enter the following URL:

    ```txt
    https://<your-team-name>.cloudflareaccess.com/cdn-cgi/access/callback
    ```

    You can find your team name in Zero Trust under **Settings** > **Custom Pages**.

22. Select **Save Changes**.

To test that your connection is working, follow the steps on [SSO Integration](/cloudflare-one/integrations/identity-providers/#test-idps-in-zero-trust).

## Example API Configuration

```json
{
	"config": {
		"client_id": "<your client id>",
		"client_secret": "<your client secret>"
	},
	"type": "facebook",
	"name": "my example idp"
}
```

Commit message:

[CF1] Updating UI instructions for `/cloudflare-one/identity/` (#26093)
* Round 1 of updating ui copy

* Updating UI for CF1/identity/

src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/integrations/identity-providers/facebook-login.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Facebook
---

Use these steps to set up Facebook as your identity provider.

1. Go to [developers.facebook.com](https://developers.facebook.com/).

2. Select **Create App** at the top-right. The **Create a New App ID** card displays.

3. Enter the **Display Name** and **Contact Email**.

4. Select **Create App ID**. The **Create a New App ID** window displays.

5. Enter the CAPTCHA code to proceed.

6. Select **Submit**.

7. On the **Facebook Login** card, select **Set Up**. A Quickstart card displays offering platform choices.

8. Select **Web**. The **Web** tab displays.

9. Enter your **Site URL**.

10. Select **Save**.

11. Select **Continue**. Ignore any JavaScript page that suggests that you install it on your site.

12. Select **Settings** > **Basic**.

13. Copy the **App ID** and **App Secret**.

    ![Facebook Settings with App ID and App Secret highlighted](~/assets/images/cloudflare-one/identity/facebook/fb6.png)

14. In [Cloudflare One](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com), go to **Integrations** > **Identity providers**.

15. Under **Your identity providers**, select **Add new identity provider**.

16. Fill in the **App ID** and **App Secret** obtained from Facebook.

17. (Optional) Enable [Proof of Key Exchange (PKCE)](https://www.oauth.com/oauth2-servers/pkce/). PKCE will be performed on all login attempts.

18. Select **Save**.

19. On [developers.facebook.com](https://developers.facebook.com/), select **Facebook Login** > **Settings** on the left-hand menu.

20. Ensure that the **Use Strict Mode for Redirect URIs** slider is set to **Yes**.

21. In the **Valid OAuth redirect URIs** field, enter the following URL:

    ```txt
    https://<your-team-name>.cloudflareaccess.com/cdn-cgi/access/callback
    ```

    You can find your team name in [Cloudflare One](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com) under **Settings** > **Team name**.

22. Select **Save Changes**.

To test that your connection is working, follow the steps on [SSO Integration](/cloudflare-one/integrations/identity-providers/#test-idps-in-cloudflare-one).

## Example API Configuration

```json
{
	"config": {
		"client_id": "<your client id>",
		"client_secret": "<your client secret>"
	},
	"type": "facebook",
	"name": "my example idp"
}
```
