src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/integrations/identity-providers/generic-oidc.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Generic OIDC
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

import { Tabs, TabItem, Render, APIRequest } from "~/components";

Cloudflare Access has a generic OpenID Connect (OIDC) connector to help you integrate IdPs not already set in Access.

## 1. Create an application in your identity provider

1. Visit your identity provider and create a client/app.

2. When creating a client/app, your IdP may request an **authorized redirect URI**. Enter the following URL:

   ```txt
   https://<your-team-name>.cloudflareaccess.com/cdn-cgi/access/callback
   ```

   You can find your team name in Zero Trust under **Settings** > **Custom Pages**.

3. Copy the content of these fields:
   - Client ID
   - Client secret
   - Auth URL: The `authorization_endpoint` URL of your IdP
   - Token URL: The `token_endpoint` URL of your IdP
   - Certificate URL: The `jwks_uri` endpoint of your IdP to allow the IdP keys to sign the tokens

   You can find these values on your identity provider's **OIDC discovery endpoint**. Some providers call this the "well-known URL".

## 2. Add an OIDC provider to Zero Trust

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com), go to **Settings** > **Authentication**.

2. Under **Login methods**, select **Add new**.

3. Choose **OpenID Connect**.

4. Name your identity provider and fill in the required fields with the information obtained from your identity provider.

5. (Optional) Enable [Proof of Key Exchange (PKCE)](https://www.oauth.com/oauth2-servers/pkce/) if the protocol is supported by your IdP. PKCE will be performed on all login attempts.

6. (Optional) To enable SCIM, refer to [Synchronize users and groups](#synchronize-users-and-groups).

7. (Optional) Under **Optional configurations**, enter [custom OIDC claims](#oidc-claims) that you wish to add to users' identity. This information will be available in the [user identity endpoint](/cloudflare-one/access-controls/applications/http-apps/authorization-cookie/application-token/#user-identity).

8. Select **Save**.

</TabItem> <TabItem label="API">

Make a `POST` request to the [Identity Providers](/api/resources/zero_trust/subresources/identity_providers/methods/create/) endpoint:

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/access/identity_providers"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "Generic OIDC example",
		type: "oidc",
		config: {
			client_id: "<your client id>",
			client_secret: "<your client secret>",
			auth_url: "https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/auth",
			token_url: "https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/token",
			certs_url: "https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v3/certs",
			pkce_enabled: false,
			email_claim_name: "email",
			claims: ["employeeID", "groups"],
			scopes: ["openid", "email", "profile"],
		},
	}}
/>

</TabItem> <TabItem label="Terraform (v5)">

1.  Add the following permission to your [`cloudflare_api_token`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/cloudflare/cloudflare/latest/docs/resources/api_token):
    - `Access: Organizations, Identity Providers, and Groups Write`

2.  Configure the [`cloudflare_zero_trust_access_identity_provider`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/cloudflare/cloudflare/latest/docs/resources/zero_trust_access_identity_provider) resource:

        	```tf
        	resource "cloudflare_zero_trust_access_identity_provider" "generic_oidc_example" {
        		account_id = var.cloudflare_account_id
        		name       = "Generic OIDC example"
        		type       = "oidc"
        		config 		 = {
        			client_id = "<your client id>"
        			client_secret = "<your client secret>"
        			auth_url = "https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/auth"
        			token_url = "https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/token"
        			certs_url = "https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v3/certs"
        			pkce_enabled = false
        			email_claim_name = "email"
        			claims = ["employeeID", "groups"]
        			scopes = ["openid", "email", "profile"]
        		}
        	}
        	```

</TabItem> </Tabs>

## 3. Test the connection

To test that your connection is working, go to **Authentication** > **Login methods** and select **Test** next to the login method you want to test. On success, a confirmation screen displays.

## Synchronize users and groups

The generic OIDC integration allows you to synchronize user groups and automatically deprovision users using [SCIM](/cloudflare-one/team-and-resources/users/scim/).

### Prerequisites

Your identity provider must support SCIM version 2.0.

### 1. Enable SCIM in Zero Trust

<Render
	file="access/enable-scim-on-dashboard"
	product="cloudflare-one"
	params={{ idp: "IdP" }}
/>

### 2. Configure SCIM in the IdP

Setup instructions vary depending on the identity provider. In your identity provider, you will either need to edit the [original SSO application](/cloudflare-one/integrations/identity-providers/generic-oidc/#1-create-an-application-in-your-identity-provider) or create a new SCIM application. Refer to your identity provider's documentation for more details. For example instructions, refer to our [Okta](/cloudflare-one/integrations/identity-providers/okta/#synchronize-users-and-groups) or [Jumpcloud](/cloudflare-one/integrations/identity-providers/jumpcloud-saml/#synchronize-users-and-groups) guides.

#### IdP groups

If you would like to build policies based on IdP groups:

- Ensure that your IdP sends a `groups` field. The naming must match exactly (case insensitive). All other values will be sent as a OIDC claim.
- If your IdP requires creating a new SCIM application, ensure that the groups in the SCIM application match the groups in the [original SSO application](/cloudflare-one/integrations/identity-providers/generic-oidc/#1-create-an-application-in-your-identity-provider). Because SCIM group membership updates will overwrite any groups in a user's identity, assigning the same groups to each app ensures consistent policy evaluation.

### 3. Verify SCIM provisioning

<Render file="access/verify-scim-provisioning" product="cloudflare-one" />

## Optional configurations

### Custom OIDC claims

All OIDC IdP integrations support the use of custom OIDC claims. Once configured, Access will add the claims to the [Access JWT](/cloudflare-one/access-controls/applications/http-apps/authorization-cookie/application-token/) for consumption by your origin services. You can reference the custom OIDC claims in [Access policies](/cloudflare-one/access-controls/policies/), offering a means to control user access to applications based on custom identity attributes. Custom OIDC claims are not currently supported in Gateway policies.

To add a custom OIDC claim to an IdP integration:

1.  In your identity provider, ensure that the custom claim is included in your OIDC ID token.
2.  In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com), go to **Settings** > **Authentication**.
3.  Under **Login methods**, find your identity provider and select **Edit**.
4.  Under **OIDC Claims**, enter the name of your custom claim (for example, `oid`).
5.  Select **Save**.
6.  Select **Test** and verify that the custom claim appears in `oidc_fields`. For example,

        ```json
        	"oidc_fields": {
        		"oid": "54eb1ed2-7150-44e6-bbe4-ead24c132fd4"
        	},
        ```

You can now build an Access policy for the custom claim using the **OIDC Claim** or **IdP OIDC Claim** selector. The custom claim will also be passed to origins behind Access in a [JWT](/cloudflare-one/access-controls/applications/http-apps/authorization-cookie/application-token/#custom-saml-attributes-and-oidc-claims).

#### Email claim

You can specify a custom **Email claim** name that Access will use to identify user emails. This is useful if your IdP does not return the standard `email` claim in the OIDC ID token.

#### Multi-record OIDC claims

Cloudflare Access extends support for multi-record OIDC claims. These claims are parsed out and can be individually referenced in policies. This feature enables granular access control and precise user authorization in applications.

Cloudflare Access does not support partial OIDC claim value references or OIDC scopes.

## Supported algorithms for generic OIDC tokens

Cloudflare supports the following algorithms for verifying generic OIDC tokens:

- RS512
- RS256
- PS512
- ES256
- ES384
- ES512

Commit message:

[CF1] Updating UI instructions for `/cloudflare-one/identity/` (#26093)
* Round 1 of updating ui copy

* Updating UI for CF1/identity/

src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/integrations/identity-providers/generic-oidc.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Generic OIDC
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

import { Tabs, TabItem, Render, APIRequest } from "~/components";

Cloudflare Access has a generic OpenID Connect (OIDC) connector to help you integrate IdPs not already set in Access.

## 1. Create an application in your identity provider

1. Visit your identity provider and create a client/app.

2. When creating a client/app, your IdP may request an **authorized redirect URI**. Enter the following URL:

   ```txt
   https://<your-team-name>.cloudflareaccess.com/cdn-cgi/access/callback
   ```

   You can find your team name in [Cloudflare One](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com) under **Settings** > **Team name**.

3. Copy the content of these fields:
   - Client ID
   - Client secret
   - Auth URL: The `authorization_endpoint` URL of your IdP
   - Token URL: The `token_endpoint` URL of your IdP
   - Certificate URL: The `jwks_uri` endpoint of your IdP to allow the IdP keys to sign the tokens

   You can find these values on your identity provider's **OIDC discovery endpoint**. Some providers call this the "well-known URL".

## 2. Add an OIDC provider to Cloudflare One

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

1. In [Cloudflare One](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com), go to **Integrations** > **Identity providers**.

2. Under **Your identity providers**, select **Add new identity provider**.

3. Choose **OpenID Connect**.

4. Name your identity provider and fill in the required fields with the information obtained from your identity provider.

5. (Optional) Enable [Proof of Key Exchange (PKCE)](https://www.oauth.com/oauth2-servers/pkce/) if the protocol is supported by your IdP. PKCE will be performed on all login attempts.

6. (Optional) To enable SCIM, refer to [Synchronize users and groups](#synchronize-users-and-groups).

7. (Optional) Under **Optional configurations**, enter [custom OIDC claims](#oidc-claims) that you wish to add to users' identity. This information will be available in the [user identity endpoint](/cloudflare-one/access-controls/applications/http-apps/authorization-cookie/application-token/#user-identity).

8. Select **Save**.

</TabItem> <TabItem label="API">

Make a `POST` request to the [Identity Providers](/api/resources/zero_trust/subresources/identity_providers/methods/create/) endpoint:

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/access/identity_providers"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "Generic OIDC example",
		type: "oidc",
		config: {
			client_id: "<your client id>",
			client_secret: "<your client secret>",
			auth_url: "https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/auth",
			token_url: "https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/token",
			certs_url: "https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v3/certs",
			pkce_enabled: false,
			email_claim_name: "email",
			claims: ["employeeID", "groups"],
			scopes: ["openid", "email", "profile"],
		},
	}}
/>

</TabItem> <TabItem label="Terraform (v5)">

1.  Add the following permission to your [`cloudflare_api_token`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/cloudflare/cloudflare/latest/docs/resources/api_token):
    - `Access: Organizations, Identity Providers, and Groups Write`

2.  Configure the [`cloudflare_zero_trust_access_identity_provider`](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/cloudflare/cloudflare/latest/docs/resources/zero_trust_access_identity_provider) resource:

        	```tf
        	resource "cloudflare_zero_trust_access_identity_provider" "generic_oidc_example" {
        		account_id = var.cloudflare_account_id
        		name       = "Generic OIDC example"
        		type       = "oidc"
        		config 		 = {
        			client_id = "<your client id>"
        			client_secret = "<your client secret>"
        			auth_url = "https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/auth"
        			token_url = "https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/token"
        			certs_url = "https://www.googleapis.com/oauth2/v3/certs"
        			pkce_enabled = false
        			email_claim_name = "email"
        			claims = ["employeeID", "groups"]
        			scopes = ["openid", "email", "profile"]
        		}
        	}
        	```

</TabItem> </Tabs>

## 3. Test the connection

To test that your connection is working, go to **Authentication** > **Login methods** and select **Test** next to the login method you want to test. On success, a confirmation screen displays.

## Synchronize users and groups

The generic OIDC integration allows you to synchronize user groups and automatically deprovision users using [SCIM](/cloudflare-one/team-and-resources/users/scim/).

### Prerequisites

Your identity provider must support SCIM version 2.0.

### 1. Enable SCIM in Cloudflare One

<Render
	file="access/enable-scim-on-dashboard"
	product="cloudflare-one"
	params={{ idp: "IdP" }}
/>

### 2. Configure SCIM in the IdP

Setup instructions vary depending on the identity provider. In your identity provider, you will either need to edit the [original SSO application](/cloudflare-one/integrations/identity-providers/generic-oidc/#1-create-an-application-in-your-identity-provider) or create a new SCIM application. Refer to your identity provider's documentation for more details. For example instructions, refer to our [Okta](/cloudflare-one/integrations/identity-providers/okta/#synchronize-users-and-groups) or [Jumpcloud](/cloudflare-one/integrations/identity-providers/jumpcloud-saml/#synchronize-users-and-groups) guides.

#### IdP groups

If you would like to build policies based on IdP groups:

- Ensure that your IdP sends a `groups` field. The naming must match exactly (case insensitive). All other values will be sent as a OIDC claim.
- If your IdP requires creating a new SCIM application, ensure that the groups in the SCIM application match the groups in the [original SSO application](/cloudflare-one/integrations/identity-providers/generic-oidc/#1-create-an-application-in-your-identity-provider). Because SCIM group membership updates will overwrite any groups in a user's identity, assigning the same groups to each app ensures consistent policy evaluation.

### 3. Verify SCIM provisioning

<Render file="access/verify-scim-provisioning" product="cloudflare-one" />

## Optional configurations

### Custom OIDC claims

All OIDC IdP integrations support the use of custom OIDC claims. Once configured, Access will add the claims to the [Access JWT](/cloudflare-one/access-controls/applications/http-apps/authorization-cookie/application-token/) for consumption by your origin services. You can reference the custom OIDC claims in [Access policies](/cloudflare-one/access-controls/policies/), offering a means to control user access to applications based on custom identity attributes. Custom OIDC claims are not currently supported in Gateway policies.

To add a custom OIDC claim to an IdP integration:

1.  In your identity provider, ensure that the custom claim is included in your OIDC ID token.
2.  In [Cloudflare One](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com), go to **Integrations** > **Identity providers**.
3.  Under **Your identity providers**, find your identity provider and select **Edit**.
4.  Under **OIDC Claims**, enter the name of your custom claim (for example, `oid`).
5.  Select **Save**.
6.  Select **Test** and verify that the custom claim appears in `oidc_fields`. For example,

        ```json
        	"oidc_fields": {
        		"oid": "54eb1ed2-7150-44e6-bbe4-ead24c132fd4"
        	},
        ```

You can now build an Access policy for the custom claim using the **OIDC Claim** or **IdP OIDC Claim** selector. The custom claim will also be passed to origins behind Access in a [JWT](/cloudflare-one/access-controls/applications/http-apps/authorization-cookie/application-token/#custom-saml-attributes-and-oidc-claims).

#### Email claim

You can specify a custom **Email claim** name that Access will use to identify user emails. This is useful if your IdP does not return the standard `email` claim in the OIDC ID token.

#### Multi-record OIDC claims

Cloudflare Access extends support for multi-record OIDC claims. These claims are parsed out and can be individually referenced in policies. This feature enables granular access control and precise user authorization in applications.

Cloudflare Access does not support partial OIDC claim value references or OIDC scopes.

## Supported algorithms for generic OIDC tokens

Cloudflare supports the following algorithms for verifying generic OIDC tokens:

- RS512
- RS256
- PS512
- ES256
- ES384
- ES512
