src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/traffic-policies/network-policies/common-policies.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: reference
title: Common policies
sidebar:
  order: 1
head:
  - tag: title
    content: Common network policies
---

import { Render, Tabs, TabItem, APIRequest } from "~/components";

The following policies are commonly used to secure network traffic.

Refer to the [network policies page](/cloudflare-one/traffic-policies/network-policies/) for a comprehensive list of other selectors, operators, and actions.

## Block unauthorized applications

<Render file="gateway/policies/block-applications" product="cloudflare-one" />

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector    | Operator | Value                     | Action |
| ----------- | -------- | ------------------------- | ------ |
| Application | in       | _Artificial Intelligence_ | Block  |

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "Block unauthorized applications",
		description: "Block access to unauthorized AI applications",
		enabled: true,
		action: "block",
		filters: ["l4"],
		traffic: "any(app.type.ids[*] in {25})",
		identity: "",
		device_posture: "",
	}}
/>

</TabItem> </Tabs>

## Check user identity

<Render file="gateway/policies/check-user-identity" product="cloudflare-one" />

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector         | Operator | Value         | Logic | Action |
| ---------------- | -------- | ------------- | ----- | ------ |
| Application      | in       | _Salesforce_  | And   | Block  |
| User Group Names | in       | _Contractors_ |       |        |

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "Check user identity",
		description:
			"Block access to Salesforce by temporary employees and contractors",
		enabled: true,
		action: "block",
		filters: ["l4"],
		traffic: "any(app.ids[*] in {606})",
		identity: 'any(identity.groups.name[*] in {"Contractors"})',
		device_posture: "",
	}}
/>

</TabItem> </Tabs>

## Enforce device posture

Require devices to have certain software installed or other configuration attributes. For instructions on enabling a device posture check, refer to the [device posture section](/cloudflare-one/reusable-components/posture-checks/). For example, you can use a list of [device serial numbers](/cloudflare-one/reusable-components/posture-checks/warp-client-checks/corp-device/) to ensure users can only access an application if they connect with the WARP client from a company device:

<Render
	file="gateway/policies/dash-plus-api/network/enforce-device-posture"
	product="cloudflare-one"
/>

## Enforce session duration

To require users to re-authenticate after a certain amount of time has elapsed, configure [WARP sessions](/cloudflare-one/team-and-resources/devices/warp/configure-warp/warp-sessions/).

## Allow only approved traffic

Restrict user access to only the specific sites or applications configured in your [HTTP policies](/cloudflare-one/traffic-policies/http-policies/).

### 1. Allow HTTP and HTTPS traffic

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector          | Operator | Value       | Logic | Action |
| ----------------- | -------- | ----------- | ----- | ------ |
| Detected Protocol | is       | _TLS_       | And   | Allow  |
| Destination Port  | in       | `80`, `443` |       |        |

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "Allow HTTP and HTTPS traffic",
		description: "Restrict traffic to HTTP and HTTPS traffic",
		enabled: true,
		action: "allow",
		filters: ["l4"],
		traffic: 'net.detected_protocol == "tls" and net.dst.port in {80 443}',
		identity: "",
		device_posture: "",
	}}
/>

</TabItem> </Tabs>

### 2. Block all other traffic

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector | Operator | Value        | Action |
| -------- | -------- | ------------ | ------ |
| Protocol | in       | _TCP_, _UDP_ | Block  |

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "Block all other traffic",
		description: "Block all other traffic that is not HTTP or HTTPS",
		enabled: true,
		action: "block",
		filters: ["l4"],
		traffic: 'net.protocol in {"tcp" "udp"}',
		identity: "",
		device_posture: "",
	}}
/>

</TabItem> </Tabs>

## Filter HTTPS traffic when inspecting on all ports

If your organization blocks traffic by default with a Network policy and you want to [inspect HTTP traffic on all ports](/cloudflare-one/traffic-policies/network-policies/protocol-detection/#inspect-on-all-ports), you need to explicitly allow HTTP and TLS traffic to filter it.

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector          | Operator | Value  | Logic | Action |
| ----------------- | -------- | ------ | ----- | ------ |
| Detected Protocol | is       | _TLS_  | Or    | Allow  |
| Detected Protocol | is       | _HTTP_ |       |        |

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "Allow on inspect all ports",
		description: "Filter HTTPS traffic when using inspect all ports",
		enabled: true,
		action: "allow",
		filters: ["l4"],
		traffic:
			'net.detected_protocol == "tls" or net.detected_protocol == "http"',
		identity: "",
		device_posture: "",
	}}
/>

</TabItem> </Tabs>

## Restrict access to private networks

Restrict access to resources which you have connected through [Cloudflare Tunnel](/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/cloudflare-tunnel/).

The following example consists of two policies: the first allows specific users to reach your application, and the second blocks all other traffic.

### 1. Allow company employees

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

<Render file="gateway/policies/restrict-access-to-private-networks-allow" product="cloudflare-one" params={{ selector: "Destination IP", value: "10.0.0.0/8" }} />
</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "Allow company employees",
		description:
			"Allow any users with an organization email to reach the application",
		enabled: true,
		action: "allow",
		filters: ["l4"],
		traffic: "net.dst.ip in {10.0.0.0/8}",
		identity: 'identity.email matches ".*@example.com"',
		device_posture: "",
	}}
/>

</TabItem> </Tabs>

### 2. Block everyone else

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

<Render
	file="gateway/policies/restrict-access-to-private-networks-block"
	product="cloudflare-one"
/>

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "Block everyone else",
		description: "Block any other users from accessing the application",
		enabled: true,
		action: "block",
		filters: ["l4"],
		traffic: "net.dst.ip in {10.0.0.0/8}",
		identity: "",
		device_posture: "",
	}}
/>

</TabItem> </Tabs>

## Override IP address

Override traffic directed toward a specific IP address with a different IP address.

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector         | Operator | Value          | Logic | Action           |
| ---------------- | -------- | -------------- | ----- | ---------------- |
| Destination IP   | in       | `203.0.113.17` | And   | Network Override |
| Destination Port | is       | `80`           |       |                  |

| Override IP | Override Port |
| ----------- | ------------- |
| `1.1.1.1`   | `80`          |

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "Override example.com with 1.1.1.1",
		description: "Override a site's IP address with another IP",
		enabled: true,
		action: "l4_override",
		filters: ["l4"],
		traffic: "net.dst.ip in {203.0.113.17} and net.dst.port == 80",
		identity: "",
		device_posture: "",
		rule_settings: {
			l4override: {
				ip: "1.1.1.1",
				port: 80,
			},
			override_host: "",
			override_ips: null,
		},
	}}
/>

</TabItem> </Tabs>

Commit message:

[Gateway] Link between common policies and learning path (#26875)
Co-authored-by: Max Phillips <mphillips@cloudflare.com>

src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/traffic-policies/network-policies/common-policies.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: reference
title: Common policies
sidebar:
  order: 1
head:
  - tag: title
    content: Common network policies
---

import { Render, Tabs, TabItem, APIRequest } from "~/components";

The following policies are commonly used to secure network traffic.

For a baseline set of recommended policies, refer to [Secure your Internet traffic and SaaS apps](/learning-paths/secure-internet-traffic/build-network-policies/recommended-network-policies/).

Refer to the [network policies page](/cloudflare-one/traffic-policies/network-policies/) for a comprehensive list of other selectors, operators, and actions.

## Block unauthorized applications

<Render file="gateway/policies/block-applications" product="cloudflare-one" />

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector    | Operator | Value                     | Action |
| ----------- | -------- | ------------------------- | ------ |
| Application | in       | _Artificial Intelligence_ | Block  |

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "Block unauthorized applications",
		description: "Block access to unauthorized AI applications",
		enabled: true,
		action: "block",
		filters: ["l4"],
		traffic: "any(app.type.ids[*] in {25})",
		identity: "",
		device_posture: "",
	}}
/>

</TabItem> </Tabs>

## Check user identity

<Render file="gateway/policies/check-user-identity" product="cloudflare-one" />

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector         | Operator | Value         | Logic | Action |
| ---------------- | -------- | ------------- | ----- | ------ |
| Application      | in       | _Salesforce_  | And   | Block  |
| User Group Names | in       | _Contractors_ |       |        |

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "Check user identity",
		description:
			"Block access to Salesforce by temporary employees and contractors",
		enabled: true,
		action: "block",
		filters: ["l4"],
		traffic: "any(app.ids[*] in {606})",
		identity: 'any(identity.groups.name[*] in {"Contractors"})',
		device_posture: "",
	}}
/>

</TabItem> </Tabs>

## Enforce device posture

Require devices to have certain software installed or other configuration attributes. For instructions on enabling a device posture check, refer to the [device posture section](/cloudflare-one/reusable-components/posture-checks/). For example, you can use a list of [device serial numbers](/cloudflare-one/reusable-components/posture-checks/warp-client-checks/corp-device/) to ensure users can only access an application if they connect with the WARP client from a company device:

<Render
	file="gateway/policies/dash-plus-api/network/enforce-device-posture"
	product="cloudflare-one"
/>

## Enforce session duration

To require users to re-authenticate after a certain amount of time has elapsed, configure [WARP sessions](/cloudflare-one/team-and-resources/devices/warp/configure-warp/warp-sessions/).

## Allow only approved traffic

Restrict user access to only the specific sites or applications configured in your [HTTP policies](/cloudflare-one/traffic-policies/http-policies/).

### 1. Allow HTTP and HTTPS traffic

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector          | Operator | Value       | Logic | Action |
| ----------------- | -------- | ----------- | ----- | ------ |
| Detected Protocol | is       | _TLS_       | And   | Allow  |
| Destination Port  | in       | `80`, `443` |       |        |

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "Allow HTTP and HTTPS traffic",
		description: "Restrict traffic to HTTP and HTTPS traffic",
		enabled: true,
		action: "allow",
		filters: ["l4"],
		traffic: 'net.detected_protocol == "tls" and net.dst.port in {80 443}',
		identity: "",
		device_posture: "",
	}}
/>

</TabItem> </Tabs>

### 2. Block all other traffic

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector | Operator | Value        | Action |
| -------- | -------- | ------------ | ------ |
| Protocol | in       | _TCP_, _UDP_ | Block  |

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "Block all other traffic",
		description: "Block all other traffic that is not HTTP or HTTPS",
		enabled: true,
		action: "block",
		filters: ["l4"],
		traffic: 'net.protocol in {"tcp" "udp"}',
		identity: "",
		device_posture: "",
	}}
/>

</TabItem> </Tabs>

## Filter HTTPS traffic when inspecting on all ports

If your organization blocks traffic by default with a Network policy and you want to [inspect HTTP traffic on all ports](/cloudflare-one/traffic-policies/network-policies/protocol-detection/#inspect-on-all-ports), you need to explicitly allow HTTP and TLS traffic to filter it.

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector          | Operator | Value  | Logic | Action |
| ----------------- | -------- | ------ | ----- | ------ |
| Detected Protocol | is       | _TLS_  | Or    | Allow  |
| Detected Protocol | is       | _HTTP_ |       |        |

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "Allow on inspect all ports",
		description: "Filter HTTPS traffic when using inspect all ports",
		enabled: true,
		action: "allow",
		filters: ["l4"],
		traffic:
			'net.detected_protocol == "tls" or net.detected_protocol == "http"',
		identity: "",
		device_posture: "",
	}}
/>

</TabItem> </Tabs>

## Restrict access to private networks

Restrict access to resources which you have connected through [Cloudflare Tunnel](/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/cloudflare-tunnel/).

The following example consists of two policies: the first allows specific users to reach your application, and the second blocks all other traffic.

### 1. Allow company employees

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

<Render file="gateway/policies/restrict-access-to-private-networks-allow" product="cloudflare-one" params={{ selector: "Destination IP", value: "10.0.0.0/8" }} />
</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "Allow company employees",
		description:
			"Allow any users with an organization email to reach the application",
		enabled: true,
		action: "allow",
		filters: ["l4"],
		traffic: "net.dst.ip in {10.0.0.0/8}",
		identity: 'identity.email matches ".*@example.com"',
		device_posture: "",
	}}
/>

</TabItem> </Tabs>

### 2. Block everyone else

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

<Render
	file="gateway/policies/restrict-access-to-private-networks-block"
	product="cloudflare-one"
/>

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "Block everyone else",
		description: "Block any other users from accessing the application",
		enabled: true,
		action: "block",
		filters: ["l4"],
		traffic: "net.dst.ip in {10.0.0.0/8}",
		identity: "",
		device_posture: "",
	}}
/>

</TabItem> </Tabs>

## Override IP address

Override traffic directed toward a specific IP address with a different IP address.

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector         | Operator | Value          | Logic | Action           |
| ---------------- | -------- | -------------- | ----- | ---------------- |
| Destination IP   | in       | `203.0.113.17` | And   | Network Override |
| Destination Port | is       | `80`           |       |                  |

| Override IP | Override Port |
| ----------- | ------------- |
| `1.1.1.1`   | `80`          |

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "Override example.com with 1.1.1.1",
		description: "Override a site's IP address with another IP",
		enabled: true,
		action: "l4_override",
		filters: ["l4"],
		traffic: "net.dst.ip in {203.0.113.17} and net.dst.port == 80",
		identity: "",
		device_posture: "",
		rule_settings: {
			l4override: {
				ip: "1.1.1.1",
				port: 80,
			},
			override_host: "",
			override_ips: null,
		},
	}}
/>

</TabItem> </Tabs>
