src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/cloudflare-tunnel/configure-tunnels/cloudflared-parameters/index.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Configure cloudflared parameters
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

import { TabItem, Tabs, Render } from "~/components";

Remotely-managed tunnels run as a service on your OS. You can modify the Cloudflare Tunnel service with one or more [general-purpose tunnel parameters](/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/cloudflare-tunnel/configure-tunnels/cloudflared-parameters/run-parameters/).

:::note
For instructions on configuring a locally-managed tunnel, refer to the [configuration file documentation](/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/cloudflare-tunnel/do-more-with-tunnels/local-management/configuration-file/).
:::

## Update tunnel run parameters

<Tabs> <TabItem label="Linux">

On Linux, Cloudflare Tunnel installs itself as a system service using `systemctl`. By default, the service will be named `cloudflared.service`. To configure your tunnel on Linux:

1. Open `cloudflared.service`.

   ```sh
   sudo systemctl edit --full cloudflared.service
   ```

2. Modify the `cloudflared tunnel run` command with the desired configuration flag. For example,

   ```txt null {8}
   [Unit]
   Description=Cloudflare Tunnel
   After=network.target

   [Service]
   TimeoutStartSec=0
   Type=notify
   ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/cloudflared tunnel --loglevel info --logfile /var/log/cloudflared/cloudflared.log run --token <TOKEN VALUE>
   Restart=on-failure
   RestartSec=5s

   [Install]
   WantedBy=multi-user.target
   ```

3. Restart `cloudflared.service`:

   ```sh
   sudo systemctl restart cloudflared
   ```

4. To verify the new configuration, check the service status:

	```sh
	sudo systemctl status cloudflared
	```
	```sh output
	● cloudflared.service - cloudflared
     Loaded: loaded (/etc/systemd/system/cloudflared.service; enabled; preset: enabled)
     Active: active (running) since Wed 2024-10-09 20:02:59 UTC; 2s ago
   Main PID: 2157 (cloudflared)
      Tasks: 8 (limit: 1136)
     Memory: 16.3M
        CPU: 136ms
     CGroup: /system.slice/cloudflared.service
             └─2157 /usr/bin/cloudflared tunnel --loglevel info --logfile /var/log/cloudflared/cloudflared.log run --token eyJhIjoi...
	```

</TabItem> <TabItem label="macOS">

On macOS, Cloudflare Tunnel installs itself as a launch agent using `launchctl`. By default, the agent will be called `com.cloudflare.cloudflared`. To configure your tunnel on macOS:

1. Stop the `cloudflared` service.

   ```sh
   sudo launchctl stop com.cloudflare.cloudflared
   ```

2. Unload the configuration file.

   ```sh
   sudo launchctl unload /Library/LaunchDaemons/com.cloudflare.cloudflared.plist
   ```

3. Open `/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.cloudflare.cloudflared.plist` in a text editor.

4. Modify the `ProgramArguments` key with the desired configuration flag. For example,

   ```txt
   <plist version="1.0">
       <dict>
           <key>Label</key>
           <string>com.cloudflare.cloudflared</string>
           <key>ProgramArguments</key>
           <array>
               <string>/opt/homebrew/bin/cloudflared</string>
               <string>tunnel</string>
               <string>--logfile</string>
               <string><PATH></string>
               <string>--loglevel</string>
               <string>debug</string>
               <string>run</string>
               <string>--token</string>
               <string><TOKEN VALUE> </string>
           </array>
   ```

5. Load the updated configuration file.

   ```sh
   sudo launchctl load /Library/LaunchDaemons/com.cloudflare.cloudflared.plist
   ```

6. Start the `cloudflared` service.

   ```sh
   sudo launchctl start com.cloudflare.cloudflared
   ```

</TabItem> <TabItem label="Windows">

On Windows, Cloudflare Tunnel installs itself as a system service using the Registry Editor. By default, the service will be named `cloudflared`. To configure your tunnel on Windows:

1. Open the Registry Editor.

2. Go to **HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE** > **SYSTEM** > **CurrentControlSet** > **Services** > **cloudflared**.

3. Double-click **ImagePath**.

4. Modify **Value data** with the desired configuration flag. For example,

   ```txt
   C:\Program Files (x86)\cloudflared\.\cloudflared.exe tunnel --loglevel info --logfile <PATH> run --token <TOKEN VALUE>
   ```

![Modify cloudflared service in the Registry Editor](~/assets/images/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-apps/remote-management-windows.png)

</TabItem> </Tabs>


## Update origin configuration

To configure how `cloudflared` sends requests to your [published applications](/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/cloudflare-tunnel/routing-to-tunnel/):

1. In [Cloudflare One](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/), go to **Networks** > **Connectors** > **Cloudflare Tunnels**.
2. Choose a tunnel and select **Edit**.
3. Select the **Published application routes** tab.
4. Choose an application and select **Edit**.
5. Under **Additional application settings**, modify one or more [origin configuration parameters](/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/cloudflare-tunnel/configure-tunnels/cloudflared-parameters/origin-parameters/).
6. Select **Save**.

Commit message:

Add content to Configure a tunnel index page (#27778)
This page is actively returned by Cloudy and other AI agents as an entry point to documentation about Cloudflare Tunnel. As such, it can't be blank and must have engaging overview covering main Tunnel features.

src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/cloudflare-tunnel/configure-tunnels/cloudflared-parameters/index.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Configure cloudflared parameters
description: |
  Modify tunnel service parameters to control how `cloudflared` runs on your system, including logging, connection settings, and protocol options.
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

import { TabItem, Tabs, Render } from "~/components";

Remotely-managed tunnels run as a service on your OS. You can modify the Cloudflare Tunnel service with one or more [general-purpose tunnel parameters](/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/cloudflare-tunnel/configure-tunnels/cloudflared-parameters/run-parameters/).

:::note
For instructions on configuring a locally-managed tunnel, refer to the [configuration file documentation](/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/cloudflare-tunnel/do-more-with-tunnels/local-management/configuration-file/).
:::

## Update tunnel run parameters

<Tabs> <TabItem label="Linux">

On Linux, Cloudflare Tunnel installs itself as a system service using `systemctl`. By default, the service will be named `cloudflared.service`. To configure your tunnel on Linux:

1. Open `cloudflared.service`.

   ```sh
   sudo systemctl edit --full cloudflared.service
   ```

2. Modify the `cloudflared tunnel run` command with the desired configuration flag. For example,

   ```txt null {8}
   [Unit]
   Description=Cloudflare Tunnel
   After=network.target

   [Service]
   TimeoutStartSec=0
   Type=notify
   ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/cloudflared tunnel --loglevel info --logfile /var/log/cloudflared/cloudflared.log run --token <TOKEN VALUE>
   Restart=on-failure
   RestartSec=5s

   [Install]
   WantedBy=multi-user.target
   ```

3. Restart `cloudflared.service`:

   ```sh
   sudo systemctl restart cloudflared
   ```

4. To verify the new configuration, check the service status:

	```sh
	sudo systemctl status cloudflared
	```
	```sh output
	● cloudflared.service - cloudflared
     Loaded: loaded (/etc/systemd/system/cloudflared.service; enabled; preset: enabled)
     Active: active (running) since Wed 2024-10-09 20:02:59 UTC; 2s ago
   Main PID: 2157 (cloudflared)
      Tasks: 8 (limit: 1136)
     Memory: 16.3M
        CPU: 136ms
     CGroup: /system.slice/cloudflared.service
             └─2157 /usr/bin/cloudflared tunnel --loglevel info --logfile /var/log/cloudflared/cloudflared.log run --token eyJhIjoi...
	```

</TabItem> <TabItem label="macOS">

On macOS, Cloudflare Tunnel installs itself as a launch agent using `launchctl`. By default, the agent will be called `com.cloudflare.cloudflared`. To configure your tunnel on macOS:

1. Stop the `cloudflared` service.

   ```sh
   sudo launchctl stop com.cloudflare.cloudflared
   ```

2. Unload the configuration file.

   ```sh
   sudo launchctl unload /Library/LaunchDaemons/com.cloudflare.cloudflared.plist
   ```

3. Open `/Library/LaunchDaemons/com.cloudflare.cloudflared.plist` in a text editor.

4. Modify the `ProgramArguments` key with the desired configuration flag. For example,

   ```txt
   <plist version="1.0">
       <dict>
           <key>Label</key>
           <string>com.cloudflare.cloudflared</string>
           <key>ProgramArguments</key>
           <array>
               <string>/opt/homebrew/bin/cloudflared</string>
               <string>tunnel</string>
               <string>--logfile</string>
               <string><PATH></string>
               <string>--loglevel</string>
               <string>debug</string>
               <string>run</string>
               <string>--token</string>
               <string><TOKEN VALUE> </string>
           </array>
   ```

5. Load the updated configuration file.

   ```sh
   sudo launchctl load /Library/LaunchDaemons/com.cloudflare.cloudflared.plist
   ```

6. Start the `cloudflared` service.

   ```sh
   sudo launchctl start com.cloudflare.cloudflared
   ```

</TabItem> <TabItem label="Windows">

On Windows, Cloudflare Tunnel installs itself as a system service using the Registry Editor. By default, the service will be named `cloudflared`. To configure your tunnel on Windows:

1. Open the Registry Editor.

2. Go to **HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE** > **SYSTEM** > **CurrentControlSet** > **Services** > **cloudflared**.

3. Double-click **ImagePath**.

4. Modify **Value data** with the desired configuration flag. For example,

   ```txt
   C:\Program Files (x86)\cloudflared\.\cloudflared.exe tunnel --loglevel info --logfile <PATH> run --token <TOKEN VALUE>
   ```

![Modify cloudflared service in the Registry Editor](~/assets/images/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-apps/remote-management-windows.png)

</TabItem> </Tabs>


## Update origin configuration

To configure how `cloudflared` sends requests to your [published applications](/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/cloudflare-tunnel/routing-to-tunnel/):

1. In [Cloudflare One](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/), go to **Networks** > **Connectors** > **Cloudflare Tunnels**.
2. Choose a tunnel and select **Edit**.
3. Select the **Published application routes** tab.
4. Choose an application and select **Edit**.
5. Under **Additional application settings**, modify one or more [origin configuration parameters](/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/cloudflare-tunnel/configure-tunnels/cloudflared-parameters/origin-parameters/).
6. Select **Save**.
