src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/email-security/settings/detection-settings/configure-link-actions.mdx, before:

---
title: Configure link actions
pcx_content_type: how-to
sidebar:
  order: 6
---

You can configure how Email security handles links in emails.

:::note
You can only configure link actions if you deploy Email security via [MX/Inline](/cloudflare-one/email-security/setup/pre-delivery-deployment/mx-inline-deployment/).
:::

To configure link actions:

1. Log in to [Cloudflare One](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/).
2. Select **Email security**.
3. Select **Settings**, then go to **Detection settings** > **Link actions** > **View**.

You can configure **Link actions settings**, or **URL rewrite ignore patterns**.

## Link actions settings

To configure link actions, select **Configure**.

The dashboard will display **Open links evaluated as suspicious in a remote browser (Recommended)**. This option is turned on by default. Email security will also allow you to select message dispositions to open all the links for dispositioned emails in a remote browser.

Select one or more disposition, then select **Save**.

If **Open links evaluated as suspicious in a remote browser (Recommended)** is turned off, you can select **URL defang** or **No action** on each disposition. Select **Save** once you have completed the configuration.

## Add patterns for URLs

You can add patterns for URLs that should be rewritten.

1. Under **URL rewrite ignore patterns**, select **Add a pattern**.
2. Enter a valid IP, URL, or regular expression. You can enter up to 512 characters.
3. Select **Save**.

To edit a pattern, go to the pattern you want to edit, select the three dots, then **Edit**. Once you have finished modifying the URL patter, select **Save**.

To delete a pattern, go to the pattern you want to delete, select the three dots, then **Delete**.

Commit message:

[Email security] Move paragraph to link actions (#27828)

src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/email-security/settings/detection-settings/configure-link-actions.mdx, after:

---
title: Configure link actions
pcx_content_type: how-to
sidebar:
  order: 6
---

You can configure how Email security handles links in emails.

:::note
You can only configure link actions if you deploy Email security via [MX/Inline](/cloudflare-one/email-security/setup/pre-delivery-deployment/mx-inline-deployment/).
:::

To configure link actions:

1. Log in to [Cloudflare One](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/).
2. Select **Email security**.
3. Select **Settings**, then go to **Detection settings** > **Link actions** > **View**.

You can configure **Link actions settings**, or **URL rewrite ignore patterns**.

## Link actions settings

To configure link actions, select **Configure**.

The dashboard will display **Open links evaluated as suspicious in a remote browser (Recommended)**. This option is turned on by default. Email security will also allow you to select message dispositions to open all the links for dispositioned emails in a remote browser.

Select one or more disposition, then select **Save**.

If **Open links evaluated as suspicious in a remote browser (Recommended)** is turned off, you can select **URL defang** or **No action** on each disposition. Select **Save** once you have completed the configuration.

When opening links, Email security will not allow you to:

- [Copy (from remote to client)](/cloudflare-one/remote-browser-isolation/isolation-policies/)
- [Paste (from client to remote)](/cloudflare-one/remote-browser-isolation/isolation-policies/)
- Use [keyboard](/cloudflare-one/remote-browser-isolation/isolation-policies/)
- [Print](/cloudflare-one/remote-browser-isolation/isolation-policies/)
- [Download files](/cloudflare-one/remote-browser-isolation/isolation-policies/)
- [Uploads files](/cloudflare-one/remote-browser-isolation/isolation-policies/)

## Add patterns for URLs

You can add patterns for URLs that should be rewritten.

1. Under **URL rewrite ignore patterns**, select **Add a pattern**.
2. Enter a valid IP, URL, or regular expression. You can enter up to 512 characters.
3. Select **Save**.

To edit a pattern, go to the pattern you want to edit, select the three dots, then **Edit**. Once you have finished modifying the URL patter, select **Save**.

To delete a pattern, go to the pattern you want to delete, select the three dots, then **Delete**.
