src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/reusable-components/posture-checks/warp-client-checks/require-warp.mdx, before:

---
title: Require WARP
pcx_content_type: how-to
sidebar:
  order: 10
head:
  - tag: title
    content: Require WARP
---

import { Render } from "~/components";

:::note

This device posture attribute will check for all versions of WARP, including the consumer version.

:::

Cloudflare One enables you to restrict access to your applications to devices running the Cloudflare WARP client. This allows you to flexibly ensure that a user's traffic is secure and encrypted before allowing access to a resource protected behind Cloudflare One.

## Prerequisites

- <Render
  	file="posture/prereqs-warp-is-deployed"
  	product="cloudflare-one"
  	params={{
  		name: "WARP Client Checks",
  		link: "/cloudflare-one/reusable-components/posture-checks/warp-client-checks/",
  	}}
  />

## 1. Enable the WARP check

1. In [Cloudflare One](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com), go to **Settings** > **Network**.
2. Ensure that **Proxy** is enabled.
3. Go to **Reusable components** > **Posture checks**.
4. In **WARP client checks**, select **Add a check**.
5. Select **WARP**, then select **Save**.

## 2. Add the check to an Access policy

1. In [Cloudflare One](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com), go to **Access controls** > **Applications**.

2. Locate the application for which you want to require WARP. Select **Configure**.

3. In the **Policies** tab, create a new Access policy or edit an existing policy.

4. In the policy builder, add an Include or Require rule which uses the _WARP_ selector. Save the policy.

5. Save the Access application.

Before granting access to the application, the policy will check that the device is running the WARP client.

Commit message:

[CF1] UI instruction updates (#26134)
* move mtls

* update links

* move tanium

* gateway block page

* split out app launcher customization

* fix links

* fix links

* cleanup chart

* ui updates

* Update src/content/glossary/cloudflare-one.yaml

* proxy

src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/reusable-components/posture-checks/warp-client-checks/require-warp.mdx, after:

---
title: Require WARP
pcx_content_type: how-to
sidebar:
  order: 10
head:
  - tag: title
    content: Require WARP
---

import { Render } from "~/components";

:::note

This device posture attribute will check for all versions of WARP, including the consumer version.

:::

Cloudflare One enables you to restrict access to your applications to devices running the Cloudflare WARP client. This allows you to flexibly ensure that a user's traffic is secure and encrypted before allowing access to a resource protected behind Cloudflare One.

## Prerequisites

- <Render
  	file="posture/prereqs-warp-is-deployed"
  	product="cloudflare-one"
  	params={{
  		name: "WARP Client Checks",
  		link: "/cloudflare-one/reusable-components/posture-checks/warp-client-checks/",
  	}}
  />

## 1. Enable the WARP check

1. In [Cloudflare One](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com), go to **Traffic policies** > **Traffic settings**.
2. Ensure that *Allow Secure Web Gateway to proxy traffic** is enabled.
3. Go to **Reusable components** > **Posture checks**.
4. In **WARP client checks**, select **Add a check**.
5. Select **WARP**, then select **Save**.

## 2. Add the check to an Access policy

1. In [Cloudflare One](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com), go to **Access controls** > **Applications**.

2. Locate the application for which you want to require WARP. Select **Configure**.

3. In the **Policies** tab, create a new Access policy or edit an existing policy.

4. In the policy builder, add an Include or Require rule which uses the _WARP_ selector. Save the policy.

5. Save the Access application.

Before granting access to the application, the policy will check that the device is running the WARP client.
