src/content/docs/r2/data-catalog/manage-catalogs.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: configuration
title: Manage catalogs
description: Understand how to manage Iceberg REST catalogs associated with R2 buckets
sidebar:
  order: 3
---

import {
	Render,
	PackageManagers,
	Steps,
	FileTree,
	Tabs,
	TabItem,
	TypeScriptExample,
	WranglerConfig,
	LinkCard,
	DashButton,
} from "~/components";

Learn how to:

- Enable and disable [R2 Data Catalog](/r2/data-catalog/) on your buckets.
- Enable and disable [table maintenance](/r2/data-catalog/table-maintenance/) features like compaction and snapshot expiration.
- Authenticate Iceberg engines using API tokens.

## Enable R2 Data Catalog on a bucket

Enabling the catalog on a bucket turns on the REST catalog interface and provides a **Catalog URI** and **Warehouse name** required by Iceberg clients. Once enabled, you can create and manage Iceberg tables in that bucket.

<Tabs syncKey='CLIvDash'>
<TabItem label='Dashboard'>

<Steps>
1. In the Cloudflare dashboard, go to the **R2 object storage** page.

   <DashButton url="/?to=/:account/r2/overview" />
2. Select the bucket you want to enable as a data catalog.
3. Switch to the **Settings** tab, scroll down to **R2 Data Catalog**, and select **Enable**.
4. Once enabled, note the **Catalog URI** and **Warehouse name**.
</Steps>

</TabItem>
<TabItem label='Wrangler CLI'>
To enable the catalog on your bucket, run the [`r2 bucket catalog enable command`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#r2-bucket-catalog-enable):

```bash
npx wrangler r2 bucket catalog enable <BUCKET_NAME>
```

After enabling, Wrangler will return your catalog URI and warehouse name.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Disable R2 Data Catalog on a bucket

When you disable the catalog on a bucket, it immediately stops serving requests from the catalog interface. Any Iceberg table references stored in that catalog become inaccessible until you re-enable it.

<Tabs syncKey='CLIvDash'>
<TabItem label='Dashboard'>
<Steps>
1. In the Cloudflare dashboard, go to the **R2 object storage** page.

   <DashButton url="/?to=/:account/r2/overview" />
2. Select the bucket where you want to disable the data catalog.
3. Switch to the **Settings** tab, scroll down to **R2 Data Catalog**, and select **Disable**.
</Steps>

</TabItem>
<TabItem label='Wrangler CLI'>
To disable the catalog on your bucket, run the [`r2 bucket catalog disable command`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#r2-bucket-catalog-disable):

```bash
npx wrangler r2 bucket catalog disable <BUCKET_NAME>
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Enable compaction

Compaction improves query performance by combining the many small files created during data ingestion into fewer, larger files according to the set `target file size`. For more information about compaction and why it's valuable, refer to [About compaction](/r2/data-catalog/table-maintenance/).

<Tabs syncKey='CLIvDash'>
<TabItem label='Dashboard'>

<Steps>
1. In the Cloudflare dashboard, go to the **R2 object storage** page.

   <DashButton url="/?to=/:account/r2/overview" />
2. Select the bucket you want to enable compaction on.
3. Switch to the **Settings** tab, scroll down to **R2 Data Catalog**, and click on the **Edit** icon next to the compaction card.
4. Enable compaction and optionally set a target file size. The default is 128 MB.
5. (Optional) Provide a Cloudflare API token for compaction to access and rewrite files in your bucket.
6. Select **Save**.
</Steps>

</TabItem>
<TabItem label='Wrangler CLI'>

To enable the compaction on your catalog, run the [`r2 bucket catalog compaction enable` command](/workers/wrangler/commands/#r2-bucket-catalog-compaction-enable):

```bash
# Enable catalog-level compaction (all tables)
npx wrangler r2 bucket catalog compaction enable <BUCKET_NAME> --target-size 128 --token <API_TOKEN>

# Enable compaction for a specific table
npx wrangler r2 bucket catalog compaction enable <BUCKET_NAME> <NAMESPACE> <TABLE> --target-size 128
```

:::note[Table-level vs Catalog-level compaction]

- **Catalog-level**: Applies to all tables in the bucket; requires an API token as a service credential.
- **Table-level**: Applies to a specific table only.

:::

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::note[API token permission requirements]
Compaction requires a Cloudflare API token with both R2 storage and R2 Data Catalog read/write permissions to act as a service credential. The compaction process uses this token to read files, combine them, and update table metadata.

Refer to [Authenticate your Iceberg engine](#authenticate-your-iceberg-engine) for details on creating a token with the required permissions.
:::

Once enabled, compaction applies retroactively to all existing tables (for catalog-level compaction) or the specified table (for table-level compaction). During open beta, we currently compact up to 2 GB worth of files once per hour for each table.

## Disable compaction

Disabling compaction will prevent the process from running for all tables (catalog level) or a specific table (table level). You can re-enable it at any time.

<Tabs syncKey='CLIvDash'>
<TabItem label='Dashboard'>

<Steps>
1. In the Cloudflare dashboard, go to the **R2 object storage** page.

   <DashButton url="/?to=/:account/r2/overview" />
2. Select the bucket you want to enable compaction on.
3. Switch to the **Settings** tab, scroll down to **R2 Data Catalog**, and click on the **edit** icon next to the compaction card.
4. Disable compaction.
5. Select **Save**.
</Steps>

</TabItem>
<TabItem label='Wrangler CLI'>

To disable the compaction on your catalog, run the [`r2 bucket catalog compaction disable` command](/workers/wrangler/commands/#r2-bucket-catalog-compaction-disable):

```bash
# Disable catalog-level compaction (all tables)
npx wrangler r2 bucket catalog compaction disable <BUCKET_NAME>

# Disable compaction for a specific table
npx wrangler r2 bucket catalog compaction disable <BUCKET_NAME> <NAMESPACE> <TABLE>
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Enable snapshot expiration

Snapshot expiration automatically removes old table snapshots to reduce metadata bloat and storage costs. For more information about snapshot expiration and why it is valuable, refer to [Table maintenance](/r2/data-catalog/table-maintenance/).

To enable snapshot expiration on your catalog, run the [`r2 bucket catalog snapshot-expiration enable` command](/workers/wrangler/commands/#r2-bucket-catalog-snapshot-expiration-enable):

```bash
# Enable catalog-level snapshot expiration (all tables)
npx wrangler r2 bucket catalog snapshot-expiration enable <BUCKET_NAME> \
  --token <API_TOKEN> \
  --older-than-days 7 \
  --retain-last 10

# Enable snapshot expiration for a specific table
npx wrangler r2 bucket catalog snapshot-expiration enable <BUCKET_NAME> <NAMESPACE> <TABLE> \
  --older-than-days 2 \
  --retain-last 5
```

:::note[API token permission requirements]
Catalog-level snapshot expiration requires a Cloudflare API token with both R2 storage and R2 Data Catalog read/write permissions to act as a service credential. The snapshot expiration process uses this token to update table metadata and remove old snapshots.

Refer to [Authenticate your Iceberg engine](#authenticate-your-iceberg-engine) for details on creating a token with the required permissions.
:::

## Disable snapshot expiration

Disabling snapshot expiration prevents the process from running for all tables (catalog level) or a specific table (table level). You can re-enable snapshot expiration at any time.

```bash
# Disable catalog-level snapshot expiration (all tables)
npx wrangler r2 bucket catalog snapshot-expiration disable <BUCKET_NAME>

# Disable snapshot expiration for a specific table
npx wrangler r2 bucket catalog snapshot-expiration disable <BUCKET_NAME> <NAMESPACE> <TABLE>
```

## Authenticate your Iceberg engine

To connect your Iceberg engine to R2 Data Catalog, you must provide a Cloudflare API token with **both** R2 Data Catalog permissions and R2 storage permissions. Iceberg engines interact with R2 Data Catalog to perform table operations. The catalog also provides engines with SigV4 credentials, which are required to access the underlying data files stored in R2.

### Create API token in the dashboard

Create an [R2 API token](/r2/api/tokens/#permissions) with **Admin Read & Write** or **Admin Read only** permissions. These permissions include both:

- Access to R2 Data Catalog (read-only or read/write, depending on chosen permission)
- Access to R2 storage (read-only or read/write, depending on chosen permission)

Providing the resulting token value to your Iceberg engine gives it the ability to manage catalog metadata and handle data operations (reads or writes to R2).

### Create API token via API

To create an API token programmatically for use with R2 Data Catalog, you'll need to specify both R2 Data Catalog and R2 storage permission groups in your [Access Policy](/r2/api/tokens/#access-policy).

#### Example Access Policy

```json
[
	{
		"id": "f267e341f3dd4697bd3b9f71dd96247f",
		"effect": "allow",
		"resources": {
			"com.cloudflare.edge.r2.bucket.4793d734c0b8e484dfc37ec392b5fa8a_default_my-bucket": "*",
			"com.cloudflare.edge.r2.bucket.4793d734c0b8e484dfc37ec392b5fa8a_eu_my-eu-bucket": "*"
		},
		"permission_groups": [
			{
				"id": "d229766a2f7f4d299f20eaa8c9b1fde9",
				"name": "Workers R2 Data Catalog Write"
			},
			{
				"id": "2efd5506f9c8494dacb1fa10a3e7d5b6",
				"name": "Workers R2 Storage Bucket Item Write"
			}
		]
	}
]
```

To learn more about how to create API tokens for R2 Data Catalog using the API, including required permission groups and usage examples, refer to the [Create API tokens via API documentation](/r2/api/tokens/#create-api-tokens-via-api).

## Learn more

<LinkCard
	title="Get started"
	href="/r2/data-catalog/get-started/"
	description="Learn how to enable the R2 Data Catalog on your bucket, load sample data, and run your first query."
/>

<LinkCard
	title="Connect to Iceberg engines"
	href="/r2/data-catalog/config-examples/"
	description="Find detailed setup instructions for Apache Spark and other common query engines."
/>

Commit message:

R2: improve snapshot expiration docs (#27467)
* Update deleting-data.mdx

* added wrangler version to snapshot expiration

* removed broken link

until wrangler 4.56 is released

* updated wrangler version

updated wrangler version and added working references to wrangler commands.

* corrected a note about snapshot expiration

* Remove package.json and package-lock.json changes

* Update src/content/docs/r2/data-catalog/deleting-data.mdx

Co-authored-by: Jun Lee <junlee@cloudflare.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Jun Lee <junlee@cloudflare.com>

src/content/docs/r2/data-catalog/manage-catalogs.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: configuration
title: Manage catalogs
description: Understand how to manage Iceberg REST catalogs associated with R2 buckets
sidebar:
  order: 3
---

import {
	Render,
	PackageManagers,
	Steps,
	FileTree,
	Tabs,
	TabItem,
	TypeScriptExample,
	WranglerConfig,
	LinkCard,
	DashButton,
} from "~/components";

Learn how to:

- Enable and disable [R2 Data Catalog](/r2/data-catalog/) on your buckets.
- Enable and disable [table maintenance](/r2/data-catalog/table-maintenance/) features like compaction and snapshot expiration.
- Authenticate Iceberg engines using API tokens.

## Enable R2 Data Catalog on a bucket

Enabling the catalog on a bucket turns on the REST catalog interface and provides a **Catalog URI** and **Warehouse name** required by Iceberg clients. Once enabled, you can create and manage Iceberg tables in that bucket.

<Tabs syncKey='CLIvDash'>
<TabItem label='Dashboard'>

<Steps>
1. In the Cloudflare dashboard, go to the **R2 object storage** page.

   <DashButton url="/?to=/:account/r2/overview" />
2. Select the bucket you want to enable as a data catalog.
3. Switch to the **Settings** tab, scroll down to **R2 Data Catalog**, and select **Enable**.
4. Once enabled, note the **Catalog URI** and **Warehouse name**.
</Steps>

</TabItem>
<TabItem label='Wrangler CLI'>
To enable the catalog on your bucket, run the [`r2 bucket catalog enable command`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#r2-bucket-catalog-enable):

```bash
npx wrangler r2 bucket catalog enable <BUCKET_NAME>
```

After enabling, Wrangler will return your catalog URI and warehouse name.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Disable R2 Data Catalog on a bucket

When you disable the catalog on a bucket, it immediately stops serving requests from the catalog interface. Any Iceberg table references stored in that catalog become inaccessible until you re-enable it.

<Tabs syncKey='CLIvDash'>
<TabItem label='Dashboard'>
<Steps>
1. In the Cloudflare dashboard, go to the **R2 object storage** page.

   <DashButton url="/?to=/:account/r2/overview" />
2. Select the bucket where you want to disable the data catalog.
3. Switch to the **Settings** tab, scroll down to **R2 Data Catalog**, and select **Disable**.
</Steps>

</TabItem>
<TabItem label='Wrangler CLI'>
To disable the catalog on your bucket, run the [`r2 bucket catalog disable command`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#r2-bucket-catalog-disable):

```bash
npx wrangler r2 bucket catalog disable <BUCKET_NAME>
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Enable compaction

Compaction improves query performance by combining the many small files created during data ingestion into fewer, larger files according to the set `target file size`. For more information about compaction and why it's valuable, refer to [About compaction](/r2/data-catalog/table-maintenance/).
:::note[API token permission requirements]
Table maintenance operations such as compaction and snapshot expiration requires a Cloudflare API token with both R2 storage and R2 Data Catalog read/write permissions to act as a service credential.

Refer to [Authenticate your Iceberg engine](#authenticate-your-iceberg-engine) for details on creating a token with the required permissions.
:::
<Tabs syncKey='CLIvDash'>
<TabItem label='Dashboard'>

<Steps>
1. In the Cloudflare dashboard, go to the **R2 object storage** page.

   <DashButton url="/?to=/:account/r2/overview" />
2. Select the bucket you want to enable compaction on.
3. Switch to the **Settings** tab, scroll down to **R2 Data Catalog**, and click on the **Edit** icon next to the compaction card.
4. Enable compaction and optionally set a target file size. The default is 128 MB.
5. (Optional) Provide a Cloudflare API token for compaction to access and rewrite files in your bucket.
6. Select **Save**.
</Steps>

</TabItem>
<TabItem label='Wrangler CLI'>

To enable the compaction on your catalog, run the [`r2 bucket catalog compaction enable` command](/workers/wrangler/commands/#r2-bucket-catalog-compaction-enable):

```bash
# Enable catalog-level compaction (all tables)
npx wrangler r2 bucket catalog compaction enable <BUCKET_NAME> --target-size 128 --token <API_TOKEN>

# Enable compaction for a specific table
npx wrangler r2 bucket catalog compaction enable <BUCKET_NAME> <NAMESPACE> <TABLE> --target-size 128
```

:::note[Table-level vs Catalog-level compaction]

- **Catalog-level**: Applies to all tables in the bucket; requires an API token as a service credential.
- **Table-level**: Applies to a specific table only.

:::

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Once enabled, compaction applies retroactively to all existing tables (for catalog-level compaction) or the specified table (for table-level compaction). During open beta, we currently compact up to 2 GB worth of files once per hour for each table.

## Disable compaction

Disabling compaction will prevent the process from running for all tables (catalog level) or a specific table (table level). You can re-enable it at any time.

<Tabs syncKey='CLIvDash'>
<TabItem label='Dashboard'>

<Steps>
1. In the Cloudflare dashboard, go to the **R2 object storage** page.

   <DashButton url="/?to=/:account/r2/overview" />
2. Select the bucket you want to enable compaction on.
3. Switch to the **Settings** tab, scroll down to **R2 Data Catalog**, and click on the **edit** icon next to the compaction card.
4. Disable compaction.
5. Select **Save**.
</Steps>

</TabItem>
<TabItem label='Wrangler CLI'>

To disable the compaction on your catalog, run the [`r2 bucket catalog compaction disable` command](/workers/wrangler/commands/#r2-bucket-catalog-compaction-disable):

```bash
# Disable catalog-level compaction (all tables)
npx wrangler r2 bucket catalog compaction disable <BUCKET_NAME>

# Disable compaction for a specific table
npx wrangler r2 bucket catalog compaction disable <BUCKET_NAME> <NAMESPACE> <TABLE>
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Enable snapshot expiration

Snapshot expiration automatically removes old table snapshots to reduce metadata bloat and storage costs. For more information about snapshot expiration and why it is valuable, refer to [Table maintenance](/r2/data-catalog/table-maintenance/).

:::note
Snapshot expiration commands are available as of Wrangler version 4.56.0.
:::

To enable snapshot expiration on your catalog, run the [`r2 bucket catalog snapshot-expiration enable` command](/workers/wrangler/commands/#r2-bucket-catalog-snapshot-expiration-enable):

```bash
# Enable catalog-level snapshot expiration (all tables)
npx wrangler r2 bucket catalog snapshot-expiration enable <BUCKET_NAME> \
  --token <API_TOKEN> \
  --older-than-days 7 \
  --retain-last 10

# Enable snapshot expiration for a specific table
npx wrangler r2 bucket catalog snapshot-expiration enable <BUCKET_NAME> <NAMESPACE> <TABLE> \
  --older-than-days 2 \
  --retain-last 5
```

## Disable snapshot expiration

Disabling snapshot expiration prevents the process from running for all tables (catalog level) or a specific table (table level). You can re-enable snapshot expiration at any time.

```bash
# Disable catalog-level snapshot expiration (all tables)
npx wrangler r2 bucket catalog snapshot-expiration disable <BUCKET_NAME>

# Disable snapshot expiration for a specific table
npx wrangler r2 bucket catalog snapshot-expiration disable <BUCKET_NAME> <NAMESPACE> <TABLE>
```

## Authenticate your Iceberg engine

To connect your Iceberg engine to R2 Data Catalog, you must provide a Cloudflare API token with **both** R2 Data Catalog permissions and R2 storage permissions. Iceberg engines interact with R2 Data Catalog to perform table operations. The catalog also provides engines with SigV4 credentials, which are required to access the underlying data files stored in R2.

### Create API token in the dashboard

Create an [R2 API token](/r2/api/tokens/#permissions) with **Admin Read & Write** or **Admin Read only** permissions. These permissions include both:

- Access to R2 Data Catalog (read-only or read/write, depending on chosen permission)
- Access to R2 storage (read-only or read/write, depending on chosen permission)

Providing the resulting token value to your Iceberg engine gives it the ability to manage catalog metadata and handle data operations (reads or writes to R2).

### Create API token via API

To create an API token programmatically for use with R2 Data Catalog, you'll need to specify both R2 Data Catalog and R2 storage permission groups in your [Access Policy](/r2/api/tokens/#access-policy).

#### Example Access Policy

```json
[
	{
		"id": "f267e341f3dd4697bd3b9f71dd96247f",
		"effect": "allow",
		"resources": {
			"com.cloudflare.edge.r2.bucket.4793d734c0b8e484dfc37ec392b5fa8a_default_my-bucket": "*",
			"com.cloudflare.edge.r2.bucket.4793d734c0b8e484dfc37ec392b5fa8a_eu_my-eu-bucket": "*"
		},
		"permission_groups": [
			{
				"id": "d229766a2f7f4d299f20eaa8c9b1fde9",
				"name": "Workers R2 Data Catalog Write"
			},
			{
				"id": "2efd5506f9c8494dacb1fa10a3e7d5b6",
				"name": "Workers R2 Storage Bucket Item Write"
			}
		]
	}
]
```

To learn more about how to create API tokens for R2 Data Catalog using the API, including required permission groups and usage examples, refer to the [Create API tokens via API documentation](/r2/api/tokens/#create-api-tokens-via-api).

## Learn more

<LinkCard
	title="Get started"
	href="/r2/data-catalog/get-started/"
	description="Learn how to enable the R2 Data Catalog on your bucket, load sample data, and run your first query."
/>

<LinkCard
	title="Connect to Iceberg engines"
	href="/r2/data-catalog/config-examples/"
	description="Find detailed setup instructions for Apache Spark and other common query engines."
/>
