src/content/docs/ssl/origin-configuration/authenticated-origin-pull/set-up/manage-certificates.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Manage certificates
sidebar:
  order: 3
head:
  - tag: title
    content: Set up Authenticated Origin Pulls

---

import { APIRequest } from "~/components";

Refer to the following sections to learn how to manage certificates used with the different Authenticated Origin Pulls setups.

## Use specialized certificates

To apply different client certificates simultaneously at both the zone and hostname level, you can combine zone-level and per-hostname custom certificates.

First set up [zone-level pulls](/ssl/origin-configuration/authenticated-origin-pull/set-up/zone-level/) using a certificate. Then, upload multiple, specialized certificates for [individual hostnames](/ssl/origin-configuration/authenticated-origin-pull/set-up/per-hostname/).

:::note[Note]


Since per-hostname certificates are more specific, they take precedence over zone certificates.


:::

## Delete a certificate

Client certificates are not deleted from Cloudflare upon expiration unless a [delete](/api/resources/origin_tls_client_auth/methods/delete/) or [replace](/api/resources/origin_tls_client_auth/methods/create/) request is sent to the Cloudflare API.

However, requests are dropped at your origin if your origin only accepts a valid client certificate.

## Replace a client cert (without downtime)

### Per-hostname

1. [Upload the new certificate](/api/resources/origin_tls_client_auth/subresources/hostnames/subresources/certificates/methods/create/).
2. [List your certificates](/api/resources/origin_tls_client_auth/subresources/hostnames/subresources/certificates/methods/list/) and note the ID for the certificate you uploaded.
3. [Enable Authenticated Origin Pulls for the specific hostname](/api/resources/origin_tls_client_auth/subresources/hostnames/methods/update/), using the ID obtained in step 2 to specify the certificate you want to use:

<APIRequest
	path="/zones/{zone_id}/origin_tls_client_auth/hostnames"
	method="PUT"
	json={{
		"config": [
			{
				"enabled": true,
				"hostname": "<HOSTNAME>",
				"cert_id": "<CERT_ID>"
			}
		]
	}}
/>

### Zone-level

1. [Upload the new certificate](/api/resources/origin_tls_client_auth/methods/create/).
2. [Check whether new certificate is Active](/api/resources/origin_tls_client_auth/methods/get/).
3. Once certificate is active, [delete the previous certificate](/api/resources/origin_tls_client_auth/methods/delete/).

:::note
If you keep both certificates, the API will state `active` for both but the most recently deployed certificate will be the one enabled and used.
:::

Commit message:

[SSL] Clarify AOP cert management (#27197)
* Side task: make alerts step heading shorter

* Remove outdated info

* Add dedicated section for expiration and callout under #replace

* Remove empty placeholder section

src/content/docs/ssl/origin-configuration/authenticated-origin-pull/set-up/manage-certificates.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Manage certificates
sidebar:
  order: 3
head:
  - tag: title
    content: Manage AOP certificates

---

import { APIRequest } from "~/components";

Refer to the following sections to learn how to manage certificates used with the different Authenticated Origin Pulls setups.

---

## Expired certificates

Client certificates are not deleted from Cloudflare upon expiration unless a [delete](/api/resources/origin_tls_client_auth/methods/delete/) request is sent to the Cloudflare API. However, requests are dropped at your origin if your origin only accepts a valid client certificate.

Make sure you have [notifications](/notifications/notification-available/#ssltls) set up to get alerts 30 days and 14 days before an AOP certificate expires.

---

## Use specialized certificates

To apply different client certificates simultaneously at both the zone and hostname level, you can combine zone-level and per-hostname custom certificates.

First, set up [zone-level pulls](/ssl/origin-configuration/authenticated-origin-pull/set-up/zone-level/) using a certificate. Then, upload multiple, specialized certificates for [individual hostnames](/ssl/origin-configuration/authenticated-origin-pull/set-up/per-hostname/). Since per-hostname certificates are more specific, they take precedence over zone certificates.

---

## Replace a certificate without downtime

:::caution[No automatic removal]
Client certificates are not deleted from Cloudflare upon expiration unless a [delete](/api/resources/origin_tls_client_auth/methods/delete/) request is sent to the Cloudflare API.
:::

### Per-hostname

1. [Upload the new certificate](/api/resources/origin_tls_client_auth/subresources/hostnames/subresources/certificates/methods/create/).
2. [List your certificates](/api/resources/origin_tls_client_auth/subresources/hostnames/subresources/certificates/methods/list/) and note the ID for the certificate you uploaded.
3. [Enable Authenticated Origin Pulls for the specific hostname](/api/resources/origin_tls_client_auth/subresources/hostnames/methods/update/), using the ID obtained in step 2 to specify the certificate you want to use:

<APIRequest
	path="/zones/{zone_id}/origin_tls_client_auth/hostnames"
	method="PUT"
	json={{
		"config": [
			{
				"enabled": true,
				"hostname": "<HOSTNAME>",
				"cert_id": "<CERT_ID>"
			}
		]
	}}
/>

:::note
If you keep both certificates, the API will state `active` for both but the most recently deployed certificate will be the one enabled and used.
:::

### Zone-level

1. [Upload the new certificate](/api/resources/origin_tls_client_auth/methods/create/).
2. [Check whether new certificate is Active](/api/resources/origin_tls_client_auth/methods/get/).
3. Once certificate is active, [delete the previous certificate](/api/resources/origin_tls_client_auth/methods/delete/).

:::note
If you keep both certificates, the API will state `active` for both but the most recently deployed certificate will be the one enabled and used.
:::
