src/content/docs/ssl/origin-configuration/authenticated-origin-pull/set-up/per-hostname.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Per-hostname
sidebar:
  order: 2
head:
  - tag: title
    content: Per-hostname authenticated origin pulls
---

import { AvailableNotifications, Render, Details } from "~/components";

When you enable Authenticated Origin Pulls per hostname, all proxied traffic to the specified hostname is authenticated at the origin web server. You can use client certificates from your Private PKI to authenticate connections from Cloudflare.

## Before you begin

:::caution[Warning]

<Render file="aop-per-hostname-cert-requirement" product="ssl" />
:::

Refer to the steps below for an example of how to generate a custom certificate using OpenSSL. The CA root certificate that you use to issue the custom certificate should be the same CA that you will [upload to your origin](#2-configure-origin-to-accept-client-certificates).

<Details header="OpenSSL example">
	<Render file="custom-cert-openssl-commands" product="ssl" />
</Details>

## 1. Upload custom certificate

Use the [`/origin_tls_client_auth/hostnames/certificates`](/api/resources/origin_tls_client_auth/subresources/hostnames/subresources/certificates/methods/create/) endpoint to upload your custom certificate.

:::note

You must upload a [leaf certificate](/ssl/concepts/#chain-of-trust). If you upload a root CA instead, the API will return a `missing leaf certificate` error.
:::

<Render file="aop-per-hostname-upload-cert" product="ssl" />

In the API response, save the certificate `id` since it will be required in step 4.

## 2. Configure origin to accept client certificates

<Render
	file="aop-configure-origin"
	params={{ one: " ", two: " " }}
	product="ssl"
/>

## 3. Enable Authenticated Origin Pulls for the hostname

Use the Cloudflare API to send a [`PUT`](/api/resources/origin_tls_client_auth/subresources/hostnames/methods/update/) request to enable Authenticated Origin Pulls for specific hostnames.

If you had set up logging on your origin during step 2, test and confirm that Authenticated Origin Pulls is working.

## 4. Enforce validation check on your origin

<Render file="aop-enforce-validation" product="ssl" />

## 5. (Optional) Set up alerts for hostname-level Authenticated Origin Pulls certificates

You can configure alerts to receive notifications before your AOP certificates expire.

<AvailableNotifications
	product="SSL/TLS"
	notificationFilter="Hostname-level Authenticated Origin Pulls Certificate Expiration Alert"
/>

<Render file="get-started" product="notifications" />

## Further options

Refer to [Manage certificates](/ssl/origin-configuration/authenticated-origin-pull/set-up/manage-certificates/) for further options.

Commit message:

[SSL] Call out difference between hostname and zone level AOP (#26159)
* Add a note about the difference between hostname and zone level AOP

* Text review and add specific docs links to feature names

---------

Co-authored-by: Rebecca Tamachiro <rtamachiro@cloudflare.com>

src/content/docs/ssl/origin-configuration/authenticated-origin-pull/set-up/per-hostname.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Per-hostname
sidebar:
  order: 2
head:
  - tag: title
    content: Per-hostname authenticated origin pulls
---

import { AvailableNotifications, Render, Details } from "~/components";

When you enable Authenticated Origin Pulls per hostname, all proxied traffic to the specified hostname is authenticated at the origin web server. You can use client certificates from your Private PKI to authenticate connections from Cloudflare.

## Before you begin

:::caution[Warning]

<Render file="aop-per-hostname-cert-requirement" product="ssl" />
:::

Refer to the steps below for an example of how to generate a custom certificate using OpenSSL. The CA root certificate that you use to issue the custom certificate should be the same CA that you will [upload to your origin](#2-configure-origin-to-accept-client-certificates).

<Details header="OpenSSL example">
	<Render file="custom-cert-openssl-commands" product="ssl" />
</Details>

## 1. Upload custom certificate

Use the [`/origin_tls_client_auth/hostnames/certificates`](/api/resources/origin_tls_client_auth/subresources/hostnames/subresources/certificates/methods/create/) endpoint to upload your custom certificate.

:::note

You must upload a [leaf certificate](/ssl/concepts/#chain-of-trust). If you upload a root CA instead, the API will return a `missing leaf certificate` error.
:::

<Render file="aop-per-hostname-upload-cert" product="ssl" />

In the API response, save the certificate `id` since it will be required in step 4.

## 2. Configure origin to accept client certificates

<Render
	file="aop-configure-origin"
	params={{ one: " ", two: " " }}
	product="ssl"
/>

## 3. Enable Authenticated Origin Pulls for the hostname

Use the Cloudflare API to send a [`PUT`](/api/resources/origin_tls_client_auth/subresources/hostnames/methods/update/) request to enable Authenticated Origin Pulls for specific hostnames.

If you had set up logging on your origin during step 2, test and confirm that Authenticated Origin Pulls is working.

## 4. Enforce validation check on your origin

<Render file="aop-enforce-validation" product="ssl" />

## 5. (Optional) Set up alerts for hostname-level Authenticated Origin Pulls certificates

You can configure alerts to receive notifications before your AOP certificates expire.

<AvailableNotifications
	product="SSL/TLS"
	notificationFilter="Hostname-level Authenticated Origin Pulls Certificate Expiration Alert"
/>

<Render file="get-started" product="notifications" />

:::note
[Per-hostname AOP](/ssl/origin-configuration/authenticated-origin-pull/set-up/per-hostname/) and [zone-level AOP](/ssl/origin-configuration/authenticated-origin-pull/set-up/zone-level/) are two separate configurations. Disabling zone-level AOP does not disable per-hostname AOP.
:::


## Further options

Refer to [Manage certificates](/ssl/origin-configuration/authenticated-origin-pull/set-up/manage-certificates/) for further options.
