src/content/docs/dns/zone-setups/full-setup/setup.mdx, before:

---
title: Setup
pcx_content_type: tutorial
sidebar:
  order: 1
head:
  - tag: title
    content: Change your nameservers (Full setup)
---

import { Render } from "~/components";

<Render file="full-setup-definition" product="dns" />

## Before you begin

Before you update your domain nameservers, make sure that you:

- Already own a domain name (such as `example.com` or `cloudflare.com`).

:::note
If you do not already have a [domain name](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/dns/glossary/what-is-a-domain-name/), get one at-cost through [Cloudflare Registrar](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/domains/register).

All domains purchased through Cloudflare Registrar automatically use Cloudflare for authoritative DNS, which means you can skip the rest of this tutorial.
:::

- Have previously created a [Cloudflare account](/fundamentals/account/create-account/).
- Disabled [DNSSEC](/dns/concepts/#dnssec) at your registrar (where you bought your domain name).

<Render file="dnssec-providers" product="dns" />

<Render file="dnssec-enabled-migration" product="dns" />

## Add site to Cloudflare

In the Cloudflare dashboard, [add your domain](/fundamentals/manage-domains/add-site/).

If Cloudflare is unable to identify your domain as a registered domain, make sure you are using an existing [top-level domain](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/dns/top-level-domain/) (`.com`, `.net`, `.biz`, or others).

Cloudflare requires your `apex domain` to be one level below a valid TLD defined in the [Public Suffix List (PSL)](https://github.com/publicsuffix/list/blob/master/public_suffix_list.dat). Enterprise customers can onboard lower-level subdomains using [Subdomain setup](/dns/zone-setups/subdomain-setup/).

## Review DNS records

When you start using Cloudflare's nameservers for authoritative DNS and your zone is in a full setup, Cloudflare will become your primary DNS provider. This means that your DNS records in Cloudflare need to be accurate for your domain to work properly.

<Render file="dns-scan-intro" product="dns" /> <br />

:::note

<Render file="dns-scan-note" product="dns" />
:::

<Render file="dns-scan-procedure" product="dns" />

<Render file="dns-nxdomain-warning" product="dns" />

## Update your nameservers

<Render file="nameserver-preamble" product="dns" />

<Render file="minimize-downtime-tip" product="dns" />

### Get nameserver names

1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com) and select your account and domain.
2. On **Overview**, locate the nameserver names in **2. Replace with Cloudflare's nameservers**.

   ![Find nameserver names on the Overview page of your domain](~/assets/images/dns/nameserver-names.png)

<br />
3. Keep this window open while you perform the next step.

:::note

Cloudflare automatically assigns nameservers to a domain and these assignments cannot be changed. For more details, refer to [Nameserver assignments](/dns/zone-setups/reference/nameserver-assignment/).
:::

### Update your registrar

1. Log in to the admin account for your domain registrar. If you do not know your provider, use [ICANN Lookup](https://lookup.icann.org/).

:::note

Depending on your use case, you may have to perform this step on the DNS records management of your domain parent zone, or at a domain reseller, instead. Refer to [Nameservers](/dns/nameservers/update-nameservers/#specific-processes) for details.
:::

2. Remove your existing authoritative nameservers.

3. Add the nameservers provided by Cloudflare. If their names are not **copied exactly**, your DNS will not resolve correctly.

<Render file="ns-update-providers" product="dns" />

:::note

To avoid common issues, refer to our [Nameserver replacement checklist](/dns/zone-setups/full-setup/troubleshooting/).

:::

### Verify changes

Wait up to 24 hours while your registrar updates your nameservers.

When your domain is **Active**:

- You will receive an email from Cloudflare.
- Your domain will have a [status](/dns/zone-setups/reference/domain-status/) of **Active** on the **Websites** page of your account.
- Online tools such as [https://www.whatsmydns.net/](https://www.whatsmydns.net/) will show your Cloudflare-assigned nameservers (most of these tools use cached query results, so it may take longer for them to show the updated nameservers).
- CLI commands will show your Cloudflare-assigned nameservers

```txt
*Linux/Unix*
dig <DOMAIN_NAME> +trace @1.1.1.1
dig <DOMAIN_NAME> +trace @8.8.8.8

*Windows*
nslookup <DOMAIN_NAME> 1.1.1.1
nslookup <DOMAIN_NAME> 8.8.8.8
```

:::note

If you see unexpected results, refer to our [troubleshooting suggestions](/dns/zone-setups/full-setup/troubleshooting/) and check with your domain registrar.

:::

## Re-enable DNSSEC

When you updated your nameservers, you should have also disabled DNSSEC at your registrar.

You should now [enable DNSSEC](/dns/dnssec/) to protect from domain spoofing.

Commit message:

Ai descriptions util (#25736)
* Edits

* final files

* remove tab

* fix more tabs

* fixed steps

* fix

* final fix

* Update src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/tutorials/okta-u2f.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/tutorials/vnc-client-in-browser.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/r2/tutorials/cloudflare-access.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/pages/how-to/deploy-a-wordpress-site.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/pages/migrations/migrating-from-netlify.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/reference-architecture/design-guides/network-vpn-migration.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/ssl/keyless-ssl/hardware-security-modules/ibm-cloud-hsm.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/turnstile/tutorials/excluding-turnstile-from-e2e-tests.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* update

---------

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

src/content/docs/dns/zone-setups/full-setup/setup.mdx, after:

---
title: Setup
pcx_content_type: tutorial
sidebar:
  order: 1
head:
  - tag: title
    content: Change your nameservers (Full setup)
description: >-
  If you want to use Cloudflare as your primary DNS provider and manage your DNS records, your domain should be using a full setup.
---

import { Render } from "~/components";

<Render file="full-setup-definition" product="dns" />

## Before you begin

Before you update your domain nameservers, make sure that you:

- Already own a domain name (such as `example.com` or `cloudflare.com`).

:::note
If you do not already have a [domain name](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/dns/glossary/what-is-a-domain-name/), get one at-cost through [Cloudflare Registrar](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/domains/register).

All domains purchased through Cloudflare Registrar automatically use Cloudflare for authoritative DNS, which means you can skip the rest of this tutorial.
:::

- Have previously created a [Cloudflare account](/fundamentals/account/create-account/).
- Disabled [DNSSEC](/dns/concepts/#dnssec) at your registrar (where you bought your domain name).

<Render file="dnssec-providers" product="dns" />

<Render file="dnssec-enabled-migration" product="dns" />

## Add site to Cloudflare

In the Cloudflare dashboard, [add your domain](/fundamentals/manage-domains/add-site/).

If Cloudflare is unable to identify your domain as a registered domain, make sure you are using an existing [top-level domain](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/dns/top-level-domain/) (`.com`, `.net`, `.biz`, or others).

Cloudflare requires your `apex domain` to be one level below a valid TLD defined in the [Public Suffix List (PSL)](https://github.com/publicsuffix/list/blob/master/public_suffix_list.dat). Enterprise customers can onboard lower-level subdomains using [Subdomain setup](/dns/zone-setups/subdomain-setup/).

## Review DNS records

When you start using Cloudflare's nameservers for authoritative DNS and your zone is in a full setup, Cloudflare will become your primary DNS provider. This means that your DNS records in Cloudflare need to be accurate for your domain to work properly.

<Render file="dns-scan-intro" product="dns" /> <br />

:::note

<Render file="dns-scan-note" product="dns" />
:::

<Render file="dns-scan-procedure" product="dns" />

<Render file="dns-nxdomain-warning" product="dns" />

## Update your nameservers

<Render file="nameserver-preamble" product="dns" />

<Render file="minimize-downtime-tip" product="dns" />

### Get nameserver names

1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com) and select your account and domain.
2. On **Overview**, locate the nameserver names in **2. Replace with Cloudflare's nameservers**.

   ![Find nameserver names on the Overview page of your domain](~/assets/images/dns/nameserver-names.png)

<br />
3. Keep this window open while you perform the next step.

:::note

Cloudflare automatically assigns nameservers to a domain and these assignments cannot be changed. For more details, refer to [Nameserver assignments](/dns/zone-setups/reference/nameserver-assignment/).
:::

### Update your registrar

1. Log in to the admin account for your domain registrar. If you do not know your provider, use [ICANN Lookup](https://lookup.icann.org/).

:::note

Depending on your use case, you may have to perform this step on the DNS records management of your domain parent zone, or at a domain reseller, instead. Refer to [Nameservers](/dns/nameservers/update-nameservers/#specific-processes) for details.
:::

2. Remove your existing authoritative nameservers.

3. Add the nameservers provided by Cloudflare. If their names are not **copied exactly**, your DNS will not resolve correctly.

<Render file="ns-update-providers" product="dns" />

:::note

To avoid common issues, refer to our [Nameserver replacement checklist](/dns/zone-setups/full-setup/troubleshooting/).

:::

### Verify changes

Wait up to 24 hours while your registrar updates your nameservers.

When your domain is **Active**:

- You will receive an email from Cloudflare.
- Your domain will have a [status](/dns/zone-setups/reference/domain-status/) of **Active** on the **Websites** page of your account.
- Online tools such as [https://www.whatsmydns.net/](https://www.whatsmydns.net/) will show your Cloudflare-assigned nameservers (most of these tools use cached query results, so it may take longer for them to show the updated nameservers).
- CLI commands will show your Cloudflare-assigned nameservers

```txt
*Linux/Unix*
dig <DOMAIN_NAME> +trace @1.1.1.1
dig <DOMAIN_NAME> +trace @8.8.8.8

*Windows*
nslookup <DOMAIN_NAME> 1.1.1.1
nslookup <DOMAIN_NAME> 8.8.8.8
```

:::note

If you see unexpected results, refer to our [troubleshooting suggestions](/dns/zone-setups/full-setup/troubleshooting/) and check with your domain registrar.

:::

## Re-enable DNSSEC

When you updated your nameservers, you should have also disabled DNSSEC at your registrar.

You should now [enable DNSSEC](/dns/dnssec/) to protect from domain spoofing.
