src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/email-security/setup/post-delivery-deployment/bcc-journaling/bcc-setup/gmail-bcc-setup/enable-gmail-integration.mdx, before:

---
title: Enable Gmail BCC integration
pcx_content_type: how-to
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

import { Render } from "~/components";

## Prerequisites

To use Email Security, you will need to have:

<Render
	file="email-security/onboarding-prerequisites"
	product="cloudflare-one"
/>

## Enable Gmail BCC integration:

1. Log in to [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/).
2. Select **Email Security**.
3. Select **Overview**. Select one of the following options:

- If you have not purchased Email Security, select **Contact sales**.
- If you have not associated any integration:
  - Select **Set up**, then choose **BCC/Journaling**.
  - Select **Integrate with Google** > **Authorize**.
  - Name your integration, then select **Next**.
  - Go to [step 1](/cloudflare-one/email-security/setup/post-delivery-deployment/bcc-journaling/bcc-setup/gmail-bcc-setup/enable-gmail-integration/#1-create-a-service-account-in-your-gcp-project) to continue the process of associating an integration.
- If you have associated an integration, but have not connected a domain:
  - Select **Connect a domain**.
  - Choose **BCC/Journaling** > **Integrate with Google**.
  - Refer to [Connect your domains](/cloudflare-one/email-security/setup/post-delivery-deployment/bcc-journaling/bcc-setup/gmail-bcc-setup/connect-domains/) to connect your domain(s).

### 1. Create a Service Account in your GCP Project

1. Once you have named your integration, select **Next**.
2. On the [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/welcome/new), go to the sidebar, select **APIs & Services**, then select **Credentials**.
3. Select **CREATE CREDENTIALS** > **Service account**.
4. Fill in the details to create a service account:
   - **Service account name**: Enter `Cloudflare Google Integration`.
   - **Service account ID**: Enter `cloudflare-google-integration`.
   - **Service account description**: Enter `Cloudflare Google Integration`.
   - Select **CREATE AND CONTINUE**.

### 2. Create a JSON Key for your Service Account

On the [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/welcome/new):

1. On the sidebar, select **IAM & Admim** > **Service Accounts**.
2. Locate your email, select the three dots, then select **Manage keys**. 
3. Select **Add key** > **Create new key**. 
4. Select **JSON** > Select **CREATE**. This downloads a `.json` file which you will use when [uploading a JSON key](/cloudflare-one/email-security/setup/post-delivery-deployment/bcc-journaling/bcc-setup/gmail-bcc-setup/enable-gmail-integration/#3-upload-json-key).

### 3. Upload JSON Key

On the [Zero Trust dashboard](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/), upload the `.json` file downloaded on step 3.

### 4. Enable Necessary Google Workspace APIs in GCP

Enable the following APIs on the Google Cloud Console: 
- [Google Calendar API](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/library/calendar-json.googleapis.com?project=winter-surf-439414-h1) 
- [Google Drive API](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/library/drive.googleapis.com?project=winter-surf-439414-h1) 
- [Google Admin SDK API](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/library/admin.googleapis.com?project=winter-surf-439414-h1)
- [Gmail API](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/library/gmail.googleapis.com?project=winter-surf-439414-h1) 
- [Google Service Usage API](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/library/serviceusage.googleapis.com?project=winter-surf-439414-h1)

### 5. Log in to Google Workspace Admin Console

Log in to Google Workspace Admin Console: Enter your password and log in to the Google Workspace Admin Console.

### 6. Create a Domain-Wide Delegation API Client

1. Copy the **Client ID** and **Scopes** displayed on the Zero Trust dashboard.
2. On Google Admin, go to **Security** > **Access and data control** > **API controls**.
3. Select **MANAGE DOMAIN WIDE DELEGATION** > **Add new**.
4. Use the Client ID and copy the scopes to create a new API client. Refer to [Delegate domain-wide authority to your service account](https://cloud.google.com/chronicle/docs/soar/marketplace-integrations/google-alert-center?_gl=1*skktsb*_ga*MTMxODg5NDExMy4xNzI5NjA1MzYy*_ga_WH2QY8WWF5*MTcyOTc3MDg2Ny40LjEuMTcyOTc3MDg5OC4yOS4wLjA.#delegate_domain-wide_authority_to_your_service_account). Then, select **Next**.

### 7. Confirm Workspace Administrator Email

Enter the email associated with the Google Workspace Administrator account. Your email must match the email associated with your Google Workspace account, or else your integration will not work.

### 8. Create integration

1. Select **Create integration**.
2. Once you created your integration, you will be redirected to the **Review details** page, where you will be able to review **Integration details**.
3. Review your details, then select **Complete Email Security set up** > **Continue to Email Security**.

## Verify integration

To verify that the integration has been successful:

1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/), go to **Email Security**.
2. Go to **Settings** (the gear icon) > **SaaS integrations**.
3. Go to your integration, and ensure that the integration displays **CASB+EMAIL** under **Type**.

:::note
If you do not reach the step to complete the Email Security set up:

1. Go to **Settings** (the gear icon) > **SaaS Integrations**.
2. Delete the integration, if present. Locate your integration, select **Configure**, then select **Delete**.
3. Follow the steps from the beginning to [enable Gmail BCC integration](/cloudflare-one/email-security/setup/post-delivery-deployment/bcc-journaling/bcc-setup/gmail-bcc-setup/enable-gmail-integration/#enable-gmail-bcc-integration).
   :::

## Next steps

Now that you have created an integration:

- [Connect your domains](/cloudflare-one/email-security/setup/post-delivery-deployment/bcc-journaling/bcc-setup/gmail-bcc-setup/connect-domains/) for Email Security to start scanning your inbox.
- [Enable logs](/cloudflare-one/insights/logs/enable-logs/) to send detection data to an endpoint of your choice.

Commit message:

[Email Security] Replace Settings with Integrations (#26025)
* [Email Security] Replace Settings with Integrations

* Update instructions

* Replace ZT with CF1

src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/email-security/setup/post-delivery-deployment/bcc-journaling/bcc-setup/gmail-bcc-setup/enable-gmail-integration.mdx, after:

---
title: Enable Gmail BCC integration
pcx_content_type: how-to
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

import { Render } from "~/components";

## Prerequisites

To use Email Security, you will need to have:

<Render
	file="email-security/onboarding-prerequisites"
	product="cloudflare-one"
/>

## Enable Gmail BCC integration:

1. Log in to [Cloudflare One](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/).
2. Select **Email Security**.
3. Select **Overview**. Select one of the following options:

- If you have not purchased Email Security, select **Contact sales**.
- If you have not associated any integration:
  - Select **Set up**, then choose **BCC/Journaling**.
  - Select **Integrate with Google** > **Authorize**.
  - Name your integration, then select **Next**.
  - Go to [step 1](/cloudflare-one/email-security/setup/post-delivery-deployment/bcc-journaling/bcc-setup/gmail-bcc-setup/enable-gmail-integration/#1-create-a-service-account-in-your-gcp-project) to continue the process of associating an integration.
- If you have associated an integration, but have not connected a domain:
  - Select **Connect a domain**.
  - Choose **BCC/Journaling** > **Integrate with Google**.
  - Refer to [Connect your domains](/cloudflare-one/email-security/setup/post-delivery-deployment/bcc-journaling/bcc-setup/gmail-bcc-setup/connect-domains/) to connect your domain(s).

### 1. Create a Service Account in your GCP Project

1. Once you have named your integration, select **Next**.
2. On the [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/welcome/new), go to the sidebar, select **APIs & Services**, then select **Credentials**.
3. Select **CREATE CREDENTIALS** > **Service account**.
4. Fill in the details to create a service account:
   - **Service account name**: Enter `Cloudflare Google Integration`.
   - **Service account ID**: Enter `cloudflare-google-integration`.
   - **Service account description**: Enter `Cloudflare Google Integration`.
   - Select **CREATE AND CONTINUE**.

### 2. Create a JSON Key for your Service Account

On the [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/welcome/new):

1. On the sidebar, select **IAM & Admim** > **Service Accounts**.
2. Locate your email, select the three dots, then select **Manage keys**. 
3. Select **Add key** > **Create new key**. 
4. Select **JSON** > Select **CREATE**. This downloads a `.json` file which you will use when [uploading a JSON key](/cloudflare-one/email-security/setup/post-delivery-deployment/bcc-journaling/bcc-setup/gmail-bcc-setup/enable-gmail-integration/#3-upload-json-key).

### 3. Upload JSON Key

On the [Cloudflare One dashboard](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/), upload the `.json` file downloaded on step 3.

### 4. Enable Necessary Google Workspace APIs in GCP

Enable the following APIs on the Google Cloud Console: 
- [Google Calendar API](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/library/calendar-json.googleapis.com?project=winter-surf-439414-h1) 
- [Google Drive API](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/library/drive.googleapis.com?project=winter-surf-439414-h1) 
- [Google Admin SDK API](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/library/admin.googleapis.com?project=winter-surf-439414-h1)
- [Gmail API](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/library/gmail.googleapis.com?project=winter-surf-439414-h1) 
- [Google Service Usage API](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/library/serviceusage.googleapis.com?project=winter-surf-439414-h1)

### 5. Log in to Google Workspace Admin Console

Log in to Google Workspace Admin Console: Enter your password and log in to the Google Workspace Admin Console.

### 6. Create a Domain-Wide Delegation API Client

1. Copy the **Client ID** and **Scopes** displayed on the Cloudflare One dashboard.
2. On Google Admin, go to **Security** > **Access and data control** > **API controls**.
3. Select **MANAGE DOMAIN WIDE DELEGATION** > **Add new**.
4. Use the Client ID and copy the scopes to create a new API client. Refer to [Delegate domain-wide authority to your service account](https://cloud.google.com/chronicle/docs/soar/marketplace-integrations/google-alert-center?_gl=1*skktsb*_ga*MTMxODg5NDExMy4xNzI5NjA1MzYy*_ga_WH2QY8WWF5*MTcyOTc3MDg2Ny40LjEuMTcyOTc3MDg5OC4yOS4wLjA.#delegate_domain-wide_authority_to_your_service_account). Then, select **Next**.

### 7. Confirm Workspace Administrator Email

Enter the email associated with the Google Workspace Administrator account. Your email must match the email associated with your Google Workspace account, or else your integration will not work.

### 8. Create integration

1. Select **Create integration**.
2. Once you created your integration, you will be redirected to the **Review details** page, where you will be able to review **Integration details**.
3. Review your details, then select **Complete Email Security set up** > **Continue to Email Security**.

## Verify integration

To verify that the integration has been successful:

1. In [Cloudflare One](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/), go to **Integrations**.
2. Under **Your integrations**, locate your integration, and ensure that the integration displays **CASB+EMAIL** under **Type**.

:::note
If you do not reach the step to complete the Email Security set up:

1. Go to **Integrations** > **Cloud & SaaS Integrations** > **Integrations**.
2. Delete the integration, if present. Locate your integration, select **Configure**, then select **Delete**.
3. Follow the steps from the beginning to [enable Gmail BCC integration](/cloudflare-one/email-security/setup/post-delivery-deployment/bcc-journaling/bcc-setup/gmail-bcc-setup/enable-gmail-integration/#enable-gmail-bcc-integration).
   :::

## Next steps

Now that you have created an integration:

- [Connect your domains](/cloudflare-one/email-security/setup/post-delivery-deployment/bcc-journaling/bcc-setup/gmail-bcc-setup/connect-domains/) for Email Security to start scanning your inbox.
- [Enable logs](/cloudflare-one/insights/logs/enable-logs/) to send detection data to an endpoint of your choice.
