src/content/docs/containers/platform-details/limits.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: reference
title: Limits and Instance Types
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

import { Render } from "~/components";

## Instance Types

The memory, vCPU, and disk space for Containers are set through predefined instance types.
Six instance types are currently available:

<Render product="containers" file="instance-types" />

These are specified using the [`instance_type` property](/workers/wrangler/configuration/#containers) in your Worker's Wrangler configuration file. Looking for larger instances? [Give us feedback here](/containers/beta-info/#feedback-wanted) and tell us what size instances you need, and what you want to use them for.

:::note
The `dev` and `standard` instance types are preserved for backward compatibility and are aliases for `lite` and `standard-1`, respectively.
:::

## Limits

While in open beta, the following limits are currently in effect:

| Feature                                                | Workers Paid                                   |
| ------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------- |
| GiB Memory for all concurrent live Container instances | 400GiB                                         |
| vCPU for all concurrent live Container instances       | 100                                            |
| TB Disk for all concurrent live Container instances    | 2TB                                            |
| Image size                                             | Same as [instance disk space](#instance-types) |
| Total image storage per account                        | 50 GB [^1]                                     |

[^1]: Delete container images with `wrangler containers delete` to free up space. Note that if you delete a container image and then [roll back](/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments/rollbacks/) your Worker to a previous version, this version may no longer work.

Commit message:

containers: document custom instance types (#27310)
* document custom instance types for all container users

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Mike Nomitch <mnomitch@cloudflare.com>

* update date for changelog

---------

Co-authored-by: Mike Nomitch <mnomitch@cloudflare.com>

src/content/docs/containers/platform-details/limits.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: reference
title: Limits and Instance Types
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

import { Render } from "~/components";

## Instance Types

The memory, vCPU, and disk space for Containers are set through predefined instance types.
Six instance types are currently available:

<Render product="containers" file="instance-types" />

These are specified using the [`instance_type` property](/workers/wrangler/configuration/#containers) in your Worker's Wrangler configuration file.

:::note
The `dev` and `standard` instance types are preserved for backward compatibility and are aliases for `lite` and `standard-1`, respectively.
:::

### Custom Instance Types

In addition to the predefined instance types, you can configure custom instance types by specifying `vcpu`, `memory_mib`, and `disk_mb` values. See the [Wrangler configuration documentation](/workers/wrangler/configuration/#custom-instance-types) for configuration details.

Custom instance types have the following constraints:

| Resource             | Limit                               |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| Minimum vCPU         | 1                                   |
| Maximum vCPU         | 4                                   |
| Maximum Memory       | 12 GiB                              |
| Maximum Disk         | 20 GB                               |
| Memory to vCPU ratio | Minimum 3 GiB memory per vCPU       |
| Disk to Memory ratio | Maximum 2 GB disk per 1 GiB memory  |

For workloads requiring less than 1 vCPU, use the predefined instance types such as `lite` or `basic`.

Looking for larger instances? [Give us feedback here](/containers/beta-info/#feedback-wanted) and tell us what size instances you need, and what you want to use them for.

## Limits

While in open beta, the following limits are currently in effect:

| Feature                                                | Workers Paid                                   |
| ------------------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------- |
| GiB Memory for all concurrent live Container instances | 400GiB                                         |
| vCPU for all concurrent live Container instances       | 100                                            |
| TB Disk for all concurrent live Container instances    | 2TB                                            |
| Image size                                             | Same as [instance disk space](#instance-types) |
| Total image storage per account                        | 50 GB [^1]                                     |

[^1]: Delete container images with `wrangler containers delete` to free up space. Note that if you delete a container image and then [roll back](/workers/configuration/versions-and-deployments/rollbacks/) your Worker to a previous version, this version may no longer work.
