src/content/docs/ai-search/configuration/system-prompt.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: System prompt
sidebar:
  order: 4
---

System prompts allow you to guide the behavior of the text-generation models used by AI Search at query time. AI Search supports system prompt configuration in two steps:

- **Query rewriting**: Reformulates the original user query to improve semantic retrieval. A system prompt can guide how the model interprets and rewrites the query.
- **Generation**: Generates the final response from retrieved context. A system prompt can help define how the model should format, filter, or prioritize information when constructing the answer.

## What is a system prompt?

A system prompt is a special instruction sent to a large language model (LLM) that guides how it behaves during inference. The system prompt defines the model's role, context, or rules it should follow.

System prompts are particularly useful for:

- Enforcing specific response formats
- Constraining behavior (for example, it only responds based on the provided content)
- Applying domain-specific tone or terminology
- Encouraging consistent, high-quality output

## How to set your system prompt

The system prompt for your AI Search can be set after it has been created by:

1. Navigating to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/ai/autorag), and go to AI > AI Search
2. Select your AI Search
3. Go to Settings page and find the System prompt setting for either Query rewrite or Generation

### Default system prompt

When configuring your AI Search instance, you can provide your own system prompts. If you do not provide a system prompt, AI Search will use the **default system prompt** provided by Cloudflare.

You can view the effective system prompt used for any AI Search's model call through AI Gateway logs, where model inputs and outputs are recorded.

:::note
The default system prompt can change and evolve over time to improve performance and quality.
:::

## Query rewriting system prompt

If query rewriting is enabled, you can provide a custom system prompt to control how the model rewrites user queries. In this step, the model receives:

- The query rewrite system prompt
- The original user query

The model outputs a rewritten query optimized for semantic retrieval.

### Example

```text
You are a search query optimizer for vector database searches. Your task is to reformulate user queries into more effective search terms.

Given a user's search query, you must:
1. Identify the core concepts and intent
2. Add relevant synonyms and related terms
3. Remove irrelevant filler words
4. Structure the query to emphasize key terms
5. Include technical or domain-specific terminology if applicable

Provide only the optimized search query without any explanations, greetings, or additional commentary.

Example input: "how to fix a bike tire that's gone flat"
Example output: "bicycle tire repair puncture fix patch inflate maintenance flat tire inner tube replacement"

Constraints:
- Output only the enhanced search terms
- Keep focus on searchable concepts
- Include both specific and general related terms
- Maintain all important meaning from original query
```

## Generation system prompt

If you are using the AI Search API endpoint, you can use the system prompt to influence how the LLM responds to the final user query using the retrieved results. At this step, the model receives:

- The user's original query
- Retrieved document chunks (with metadata)
- The generation system prompt

The model uses these inputs to generate a context-aware response.

### Example

```
You are a helpful AI assistant specialized in answering questions using retrieved documents.
Your task is to provide accurate, relevant answers based on the matched content provided.
For each query, you will receive:
User's question/query
A set of matched documents, each containing:
  - File name
  - File content

You should:
1. Analyze the relevance of matched documents
2. Synthesize information from multiple sources when applicable
3. Acknowledge if the available documents don't fully answer the query
4. Format the response in a way that maximizes readability, in Markdown format

Answer only with direct reply to the user question, be concise, omit everything which is not directly relevant, focus on answering the question directly and do not redirect the user to read the content.

If the available documents don't contain enough information to fully answer the query, explicitly state this and provide an answer based on what is available.

Important:
- Cite which document(s) you're drawing information from
- Present information in order of relevance
- If documents contradict each other, note this and explain your reasoning for the chosen answer
- Do not repeat the instructions
```

Commit message:

Reranking documentation (#25867)
* reranking documentation

* add parameters

* changelog and system prompt changes

* Apply suggestions from code review

* Update src/content/docs/ai-search/usage/rest-api.mdx

Co-authored-by: Nuno Pereira <nunoafonso2002@gmail.com>

* Update src/content/docs/ai-search/usage/rest-api.mdx

Co-authored-by: Nuno Pereira <nunoafonso2002@gmail.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Jun Lee <junlee@cloudflare.com>
Co-authored-by: Nuno Pereira <nunoafonso2002@gmail.com>

src/content/docs/ai-search/configuration/system-prompt.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: System prompt
sidebar:
  order: 4
---

System prompts allow you to guide the behavior of the text-generation models used by AI Search at query time. AI Search supports system prompt configuration in two steps:

- **Query rewriting**: Reformulates the original user query to improve semantic retrieval. A system prompt can guide how the model interprets and rewrites the query.
- **Generation**: Generates the final response from retrieved context. A system prompt can help define how the model should format, filter, or prioritize information when constructing the answer.

## What is a system prompt?

A system prompt is a special instruction sent to a large language model (LLM) that guides how it behaves during inference. The system prompt defines the model's role, context, or rules it should follow.

System prompts are particularly useful for:

- Enforcing specific response formats
- Constraining behavior (for example, it only responds based on the provided content)
- Applying domain-specific tone or terminology
- Encouraging consistent, high-quality output

## System prompt configuration

### Default system prompt

When configuring your AI Search instance, you can provide your own system prompts. If you do not provide a system prompt, AI Search will use the **default system prompt** provided by Cloudflare.

You can view the effective system prompt used for any AI Search's model call through AI Gateway logs, where model inputs and outputs are recorded.

:::note
The default system prompt can change and evolve over time to improve performance and quality.
:::

### Configure via API

When you make a `/ai-search` request using the [Workers Binding](/ai-search/usage/workers-binding/) or [REST API](/ai-search/usage/rest-api/), you can set the system prompt programmatically.

For example:

```javascript
const answer = await env.AI.autorag("my-autorag").aiSearch({
  query: "How do I train a llama to deliver coffee?",
  model: "@cf/meta/llama-3.3-70b-instruct-fp8-fast",
  system_prompt: "You are a helpful assistant."
});
```

import { DashButton } from "~/components";

### Configure via Dashboard
The system prompt for your AI Search can be set after it has been created:

1. Go to **AI Search** in the Cloudflare dashboard.
   <DashButton url="/?to=/:account/ai/ai-search" />
2. Select an existing AI Search instance.
3. Go to the **Settings** tab.
4. Go to **Query rewrite** or **Generation**, and edit the **System prompt**.

## Query rewriting system prompt

If query rewriting is enabled, you can provide a custom system prompt to control how the model rewrites user queries. In this step, the model receives:

- The query rewrite system prompt
- The original user query

The model outputs a rewritten query optimized for semantic retrieval.

### Example

```text
You are a search query optimizer for vector database searches. Your task is to reformulate user queries into more effective search terms.

Given a user's search query, you must:
1. Identify the core concepts and intent
2. Add relevant synonyms and related terms
3. Remove irrelevant filler words
4. Structure the query to emphasize key terms
5. Include technical or domain-specific terminology if applicable

Provide only the optimized search query without any explanations, greetings, or additional commentary.

Example input: "how to fix a bike tire that's gone flat"
Example output: "bicycle tire repair puncture fix patch inflate maintenance flat tire inner tube replacement"

Constraints:
- Output only the enhanced search terms
- Keep focus on searchable concepts
- Include both specific and general related terms
- Maintain all important meaning from original query
```

## Generation system prompt

If you are using the AI Search API endpoint, you can use the system prompt to influence how the LLM responds to the final user query using the retrieved results. At this step, the model receives:

- The user's original query
- Retrieved document chunks (with metadata)
- The generation system prompt

The model uses these inputs to generate a context-aware response.

### Example

```
You are a helpful AI assistant specialized in answering questions using retrieved documents.
Your task is to provide accurate, relevant answers based on the matched content provided.
For each query, you will receive:
User's question/query
A set of matched documents, each containing:
  - File name
  - File content

You should:
1. Analyze the relevance of matched documents
2. Synthesize information from multiple sources when applicable
3. Acknowledge if the available documents don't fully answer the query
4. Format the response in a way that maximizes readability, in Markdown format

Answer only with direct reply to the user question, be concise, omit everything which is not directly relevant, focus on answering the question directly and do not redirect the user to read the content.

If the available documents don't contain enough information to fully answer the query, explicitly state this and provide an answer based on what is available.

Important:
- Cite which document(s) you're drawing information from
- Present information in order of relevance
- If documents contradict each other, note this and explain your reasoning for the chosen answer
- Do not repeat the instructions
```
