src/content/docs/dns/nameservers/custom-nameservers/tenant-custom-nameservers.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Set up tenant custom nameservers
sidebar:
  order: 5
  label: Tenant level
head:
  - tag: title
    content: Tenant custom nameservers
description: With tenant-level custom nameservers, you can use the same custom
  nameservers for different zones and across different accounts, as long as the
  accounts are part of the [tenant](/tenant/). The domain or domains that
  provide the nameservers names do not have to exist as zones in Cloudflare.
---

import { Example, Render, APIRequest } from "~/components";

<Render
	file="acns-tcns-intro"
	product="dns"
	params={{
		one: "Tenant",
		two: "T",
		three: "tenant",
		four: "accounts",
		five: "tenant",
	}}
/>

## Availability

Tenant custom nameservers, if created by the tenant owner, will be available to all zones belonging to any account that is part of the tenant. Via API only.

## Configuration conditions

For this configuration to be possible, a few conditions apply:

<Render
	file="acns-tcns-conditions"
	product="dns"
	params={{ one: "tenant", two: "the tenant owner", three: "Tenant owners" }}
/>

<Render
	file="acns-tcns-byoip"
	product="dns"
	params={{ one: "Tenant", two: "tenant" }}
/>

## For account owners

### Enable tenant custom nameservers on a zone

If you are an account owner and your account is part of a tenant that has custom nameservers, do the following:

1. Use a [PUT command](/api/resources/zones/subresources/custom_nameservers/methods/update/) and specify `ns_type` and `ns_set`.

<APIRequest
	path="/zones/{zone_id}/custom_ns"
	method="PUT"
	json={{
		enabled: true,
		ns_type: "tenant",
		ns_set: "<SET>",
	}}
/>

:::note

If the parameter `ns_type` is omitted, the default type `account` will be assigned.

If the parameter `ns_set` is omitted, the default set `1` will be assigned.
:::

2. If you are **not** using [Cloudflare Registrar](/registrar/), update the nameservers at your registrar to use the TCNS names. If you are using [Cloudflare Registrar](/registrar/), no further action is needed.

To make these TCNS the default namerservers for all new zones added to your account from now on, use the endpoint [Update DNS Settings for an Account](/api/resources/dns/subresources/settings/subresources/account/methods/edit/). Within the `zone_defaults` object, set the following:

```txt
"zone_defaults": {
  "nameservers": {
    "type": "custom.tenant"
  }
}
```

### Disable tenant custom nameservers on a zone

To remove TCNS and their associated DNS records from a zone, use a [PUT command](/api/resources/zones/subresources/custom_nameservers/methods/update/).

If you are **not** using [Cloudflare Registrar](/registrar/), also remove the TCNS at your domain’s registrar.

## For tenant owners

### Create tenant custom nameservers

If you are a tenant owner and you want to make TCNS available for accounts within your tenant, do the following:

1. Observe the [conditions](#configuration-conditions) for `ns_name` and `ns_set`, and create TCNS in your tenant by using the following POST command:

```bash
curl https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/tenants/{tenant_id}/custom_ns \
--header "X-Auth-Email: <EMAIL>" \
--header "X-Auth-Key: <API_KEY>" \
--header "Content-Type: application/json" \
--data '{
  "ns_name": "<NS_NAME>",
  "ns_set": <SET>
}'
```

<Render file="ns-set-omission-callout" product="dns" />

2. Add the account custom nameservers and IP addresses to your domain's registrar as glue (A and AAAA) records ([RFC 1912](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc1912.html)).

3. If the domain or domains that are used for the tenant custom nameservers do not exist within the same account, you must create the `A/AAAA` records on the configured nameserver names (for example, `ns1.example.com`) at the authoritative DNS provider.

<Example>

| Type | Name              | Content  |
| ---- | ----------------- | -------- |
| `A`  | `ns1.example.com` | `<IPv4>` |

</Example>

### Get a list of all TCNS names

To get a list of all TCNS names in your tenant account, use the following API request:

```bash
curl https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/tenants/{tenant_id}/custom_ns \
--header "X-Auth-Email: <EMAIL>" \
--header "X-Auth-Key: <API_KEY>"
```

Commit message:

[DNS] Update API instructions in tenant-custom-nameservers (#26652)

src/content/docs/dns/nameservers/custom-nameservers/tenant-custom-nameservers.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Set up tenant custom nameservers
sidebar:
  order: 5
  label: Tenant level
head:
  - tag: title
    content: Tenant custom nameservers
description: With tenant-level custom nameservers, you can use the same custom
  nameservers for different zones and across different accounts, as long as the
  accounts are part of the [tenant](/tenant/). The domain or domains that
  provide the nameservers names do not have to exist as zones in Cloudflare.
---

import { Example, Render, APIRequest } from "~/components";

<Render
	file="acns-tcns-intro"
	product="dns"
	params={{
		one: "Tenant",
		two: "T",
		three: "tenant",
		four: "accounts",
		five: "tenant",
	}}
/>

## Availability

Tenant custom nameservers, if created by the tenant owner, will be available to all zones belonging to any account that is part of the tenant. Via API only.

## Configuration conditions

For this configuration to be possible, a few conditions apply:

<Render
	file="acns-tcns-conditions"
	product="dns"
	params={{ one: "tenant", two: "the tenant owner", three: "Tenant owners" }}
/>

<Render
	file="acns-tcns-byoip"
	product="dns"
	params={{ one: "Tenant", two: "tenant" }}
/>

## For account owners

### Enable tenant custom nameservers on a zone

If you are an account owner and your account is part of a tenant that has custom nameservers, do the following:

1. Use the endpoint [Update DNS Settings for a Zone](/api/resources/dns/subresources/settings/subresources/zone/methods/edit/) and configure the `nameservers` object accordingly.

   ```txt
     "nameservers": {
       "type": "custom.tenant"
     }
   ```

	 <Render file="ns-set-omission-callout" product="dns" />

2. If you are **not** using [Cloudflare Registrar](/registrar/), update the nameservers at your registrar to use the TCNS names. If you are using [Cloudflare Registrar](/registrar/), no further action is needed.

To make these TCNS the default namerservers for all new zones added to your account from now on, use the endpoint [Update DNS Settings for an Account](/api/resources/dns/subresources/settings/subresources/account/methods/edit/). Within the `zone_defaults` object, set the following:

```txt
"zone_defaults": {
  "nameservers": {
    "type": "custom.tenant"
  }
}
```

### Disable tenant custom nameservers on a zone

- If you are using [Cloudflare Registrar](/registrar/), use the [Update DNS settings endpoint](/api/resources/dns/subresources/settings/subresources/zone/methods/edit/) to set the `type` parameter in the `nameservers` object to a different value. Then, [contact Cloudflare Support](/support/contacting-cloudflare-support/) to set your nameservers back to the nameservers you chose to use.

- If you are not using Cloudflare Registrar, use the [Update DNS settings endpoint](/api/resources/dns/subresources/settings/subresources/zone/methods/edit/) to choose a different nameserver type, and also remove the TCNS at your domain's registrar.

## For tenant owners

### Create tenant custom nameservers

If you are a tenant owner and you want to make TCNS available for accounts within your tenant, do the following:

1. Observe the [conditions](#configuration-conditions) for `ns_name` and `ns_set`, and create TCNS in your tenant by using the following POST command:

```bash
curl https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/tenants/{tenant_id}/custom_ns \
--header "X-Auth-Email: <EMAIL>" \
--header "X-Auth-Key: <API_KEY>" \
--header "Content-Type: application/json" \
--data '{
  "ns_name": "<NS_NAME>",
  "ns_set": <SET>
}'
```

<Render file="ns-set-omission-callout" product="dns" />

2. Add the account custom nameservers and IP addresses to your domain's registrar as glue (A and AAAA) records ([RFC 1912](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc1912.html)).

3. If the domain or domains that are used for the tenant custom nameservers do not exist within the same account, you must create the `A/AAAA` records on the configured nameserver names (for example, `ns1.example.com`) at the authoritative DNS provider.

<Example>

| Type | Name              | Content  |
| ---- | ----------------- | -------- |
| `A`  | `ns1.example.com` | `<IPv4>` |

</Example>

### Get a list of all TCNS names

To get a list of all TCNS names in your tenant account, use the following API request:

```bash
curl https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/tenants/{tenant_id}/custom_ns \
--header "X-Auth-Email: <EMAIL>" \
--header "X-Auth-Key: <API_KEY>"
```
