src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/applications/configure-apps/dash-sso-apps.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Cloudflare dashboard SSO application
sidebar:
  order: 4
---

import { FeatureTable, APIRequest, GlossaryTooltip } from "~/components";

By adding a Cloudflare Dashboard SSO application to your Cloudflare Zero Trust account, you can enforce single sign-on (SSO) to the Cloudflare dashboard with the identity provider (IdP) of your choice. SSO will be enforced for every user in your email domain.

## Availability

<FeatureTable id="account.single_sign_on" />

## Prerequisites

All users in your email domain must exist as a member in your Cloudflare account and IdP. To add users to your Cloudflare account, refer to [Manage Cloudflare account access](/fundamentals/manage-members/).

## 1. Set up an IdP

Add an IdP to Cloudflare Zero Trust by following [our detailed instructions](/cloudflare-one/identity/idp-integration/).

Once you configure your IdP, make sure you also [test your IdP](/cloudflare-one/identity/idp-integration/#test-idps-in-zero-trust).

## 2. Contact your account team

Ask your account team to approve and create your SSO domain. An SSO domain is the email domain associated with the members in your Cloudflare account. For example, if your SSO domain is configured for emails ending in `@yourcompany.com`, a member with email `@test.com` would not see the **Log in with SSO** option and would have to enter their username and password.

Once your SSO domain is approved, a new **SSO App** application will appear under **Access** > **Applications**. The application is pre-configured with `allow email domain` as the default rule and your IdP as the authentication providers.

### SSO domain requirements

- The email domain must belong to your organization. Public email providers such as `@gmail.com` are not allowed.
- Every user with that email domain must be an employee in your organization. For example, university domains such as `@harvard.edu` are not allowed because they include student emails.
- Your SSO domain can include multiple email domains.

:::caution

Enabling Cloudflare Dashboard SSO for an email domain (for example, `@mycompany.com`) will apply globally across all Cloudflare accounts where users log in with that domain. All users will be required to authenticate via the specified identity provider (IdP), including users on pre-existing Cloudflare accounts.

:::

## 3. Enable dashboard SSO

:::note

Cloudflare recommends carefully storing your [Global API key](/fundamentals/api/get-started/keys/) to access when necessary. You will need your Global API key when you [disable SSO](#option-2-disable-dashboard-sso).
:::

1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/), go to **Settings** > **Authentication**.
2. In the **Cloudflare dashboard SSO** card, set your email domain to **Enabled**. This action can only be performed by Super Administrators.
3. Do not log out or close your browser window. Instead, open a different browser or an incognito window.
4. In the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com), log in with your email address from your SSO domain.
5. If you can log in successfully, you have successfully set up your dashboard SSO application.
6. If you cannot log in successfully:

   1. Return to Zero Trust and go to **Settings** > **Authentication**.
   2. For **Cloudflare dashboard SSO**, set your email domain to **Disabled**.
   3. [Re-configure your IdP](/cloudflare-one/identity/idp-integration/).

## Limitations

Cloudflare dashboard SSO does not support:

- Users with plus-addressed emails, such as `example+2@domain.com`. If you have users like this added to your Cloudflare organization, they will be unable to login with SSO.
- Adding a separate email-based policy to the SSO application that does not match your SSO domain policy. As your account team must [approve and create your SSO domain](/cloudflare-one/applications/configure-apps/dash-sso-apps/#2-contact-your-account-team) based on the [SSO domain requirements](/cloudflare-one/applications/configure-apps/dash-sso-apps/#sso-domain-requirements), adding a new domain policy on your own will not work.
- Deleting the auto-generated `allow email domain` policy. If this policy was deleted, your organization's administrators would not be able to access the Cloudflare dashboard.

## IdP-initiated SSO

IdP-initiated login is supported for Cloudflare dashboard SSO, with configuration available via your identity provider (IdP).

A step-by-step guide is currently available for Okta, and similar configurations are possible with other identity providers that support custom SSO endpoints.

### Okta

Configure an identity provider (IdP)-initiated single sign-on (SSO) session using Cloudflare Zero Trust and Okta.

#### Prerequisites

1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/), go to **Access** > **Applications** > select your **SSO App**.
2. Select **Configure** to access the application settings.
3. In the **Basic Information** section, copy the **SSO Endpoint URL** and **Access Entity ID or Issuer**. You will need these values for your IdP setup.

#### Configure Okta as the IdP

1. Log in to your [Okta Admin Dashboard](https://login.okta.com/) and go to **Applications** > **Applications**.
2. Select **Create App Integration** to start a new SAML integration to handle the IdP-initated SSO flow.
3. In the pop-up, select **SAML 2.0** and select **Next**.
4. Enter a name for the app and select **Next**.
5. In the **Single Sign-On URL** field, paste the **SSO Endpoint URL** [you copied earlier](/cloudflare-one/applications/configure-apps/dash-sso-apps/#prerequisites-1).
6. In the **Audience URI (SP Entity ID)** field, paste the **Access Entity ID or Issuer** [you copied earlier](/cloudflare-one/applications/configure-apps/dash-sso-apps/#prerequisites-1).
7. Set the **Name ID Format** to **EmailAddress**.
8. Set the **Application Username** to **Email**.
9. Select **Next** > **Finish** to save the integration.
10. Test the integration by going to your Okta User Dashboard, locating the new app tile, and selecting it to verify the SSO flow.

**(Optional) Enforce single IdP login with Instant Auth**

If you use only one IdP (for example, Okta) for Cloudflare SSO and want users to skip the identity provider selection prompt:

1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/), go to **Access** > **Applications** > select your **SSO App**.
2. Go to **Login methods**.
3. Disable **Accept all available identity providers** and ensure only Okta is selected as the login method.
4. Enable **Instant Auth** to allow users to skip identity provider selection.

## Bypass dashboard SSO

This section describes how to restore access to the Cloudflare dashboard in case you are unable to login with SSO.

### Option 1: Add a backup IdP

If there is an issue with your SSO IdP provider, you can add an alternate IdP using the API. The following example shows how to add [Cloudflare One-time PIN](/cloudflare-one/identity/one-time-pin/) as a login method:

1. [Add](/api/resources/zero_trust/subresources/identity_providers/methods/create/) one-time PIN login:

<APIRequest
  path="/accounts/{account_id}/access/identity_providers"
  method="POST"
  json={{
    type: "onetimepin",
    config: {},
  }}
/>

2. [Get](/api/resources/zero_trust/subresources/access/subresources/applications/methods/list/) the `id` of the `dash_sso` Access application. You can use [`jq`](https://jqlang.github.io/jq/download/) to quickly find the correct application:

```bash title="cURL command"
curl 'https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/$ACCOUNT_ID/access/apps' \
--header "Authorization: Bearer $CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN" \
| jq '.result[] | select(.type == "dash_sso")'
```

```json title="Response"
{
  "id": "3537a672-e4d8-4d89-aab9-26cb622918a1",
  "uid": "3537a672-e4d8-4d89-aab9-26cb622918a1",
  "type": "dash_sso",
  "name": "SSO App"
  ...
}
```

3. Using the `id` obtained above, [update](/api/resources/zero_trust/subresources/access/subresources/applications/methods/update/) **SSO App** to accept all identity providers. To avoid overwriting your existing configuration, the PUT request body should contain all fields returned by the previous GET request.

<APIRequest
  path="/accounts/{account_id}/access/apps/{app_id}"
  method="PUT"
  parameters={{ app_id: "3537a672-e4d8-4d89-aab9-26cb622918a1" }}
  json={{
    id: "3537a672-e4d8-4d89-aab9-26cb622918a1",
		uid: "3537a672-e4d8-4d89-aab9-26cb622918a1",
		type: "dash_sso",
		name: "SSO App",
    allowed_idps: [],
    // ... (other existing properties)
  }}
	code={{
		mark: [9]
	}}
/>

Users will now have the option to log in using a one-time PIN.

### Option 2: Disable dashboard SSO

The following API calls will disable SSO enforcement for an account. This action can only be performed by Super Administrators.

1. Get your SSO `connector_id`:

```bash title="cURL command"
curl https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/$ACCOUNT_ID/sso/v2/connectors \
--header "Authorization: Bearer $CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN"
```

```json title="Response"
{
  "result": [
    {
      "connector_id": "2828",
      "connector_tag": "d616ac82cc7f87153112d75a711c5c3c",
      "email_domain": "yourdomain.com",
      "connector_status": "V",
      ...
    }
  ],
  "success": true,
  "errors": [],
  "messages": []
}
```

2. Disable the SSO connector:

```bash title="cURL command"
curl --request PATCH \
'https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/$ACCOUNT_ID/sso/v2/connectors/2828' \
--header "Authorization: Bearer $CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN" \
--header "Content-Type: application/json" \
--data '{
  "sso_connector_status": "DIS"
}'
```

```json title="Response"
{
	"result": {
		"id": "2828"
	},
	"success": true,
	"errors": [],
	"messages": []
}
```

Users can now log in using their Cloudflare account email and password. To re-enable SSO, send a `PATCH` request with `"sso_connector_status" : "V"`.

## Change your team name

Cloudflare does not allow you to change your <GlossaryTooltip term="team name">team name</GlossaryTooltip> while dashboard SSO is enabled. To change your team name, you must first disable dashboard SSO.

:::caution
Before disabling SSO, make sure you have access to your Cloudflare account email. This will allow you to reset your password in case you get logged out of the Cloudflare dashboard.
:::

1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/), go to **Settings** > **Authentication**.
2. If SSO is enabled, turn off **Cloudflare dashboard SSO**. This action can only be performed by Super Administrators.
3. Go to **Settings** > **Custom Pages**.
4. Under **Team domain**, select **Edit** to enter the new team name. Select **Save**.
5. In your identity provider, update your Cloudflare integration with the new team name. For example, if you are using a SAML IdP, you will need to update the Single Sign-on URL and Entity ID to `https://<new-team-name>.cloudflareaccess.com/cdn-cgi/access/callback`.
6. In Zero Trust, go to **Settings** > **Authentication**.
7. Turn on **Cloudflare dashboard SSO** to re-enable SSO.

Commit message:

[ZT] delete SSO app when changing team name (#25249)
* delete SSO app

* Update dash-sso-apps.mdx

* Update src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/applications/configure-apps/dash-sso-apps.mdx

* reorder steps

---------

Co-authored-by: kennyj42 <73258453+kennyj42@users.noreply.github.com>

src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/applications/configure-apps/dash-sso-apps.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Cloudflare dashboard SSO application
sidebar:
  order: 4
---

import { FeatureTable, APIRequest, GlossaryTooltip } from "~/components";

By adding a Cloudflare Dashboard SSO application to your Cloudflare Zero Trust account, you can enforce single sign-on (SSO) to the Cloudflare dashboard with the identity provider (IdP) of your choice. SSO will be enforced for every user in your email domain.

## Availability

<FeatureTable id="account.single_sign_on" />

## Prerequisites

All users in your email domain must exist as a member in your Cloudflare account and IdP. To add users to your Cloudflare account, refer to [Manage Cloudflare account access](/fundamentals/manage-members/).

## 1. Set up an IdP

Add an IdP to Cloudflare Zero Trust by following [our detailed instructions](/cloudflare-one/identity/idp-integration/).

Once you configure your IdP, make sure you also [test your IdP](/cloudflare-one/identity/idp-integration/#test-idps-in-zero-trust).

## 2. Contact your account team

Ask your account team to approve and create your SSO domain. An SSO domain is the email domain associated with the members in your Cloudflare account. For example, if your SSO domain is configured for emails ending in `@yourcompany.com`, a member with email `@test.com` would not see the **Log in with SSO** option and would have to enter their username and password.

Once your SSO domain is approved, a new **SSO App** application will appear under **Access** > **Applications**. The application is pre-configured with `allow email domain` as the default rule and your IdP as the authentication providers.

### SSO domain requirements

- The email domain must belong to your organization. Public email providers such as `@gmail.com` are not allowed.
- Every user with that email domain must be an employee in your organization. For example, university domains such as `@harvard.edu` are not allowed because they include student emails.
- Your SSO domain can include multiple email domains.

:::caution

Enabling Cloudflare Dashboard SSO for an email domain (for example, `@mycompany.com`) will apply globally across all Cloudflare accounts where users log in with that domain. All users will be required to authenticate via the specified identity provider (IdP), including users on pre-existing Cloudflare accounts.

:::

## 3. Enable dashboard SSO

:::note

Cloudflare recommends carefully storing your [Global API key](/fundamentals/api/get-started/keys/) to access when necessary. You will need your Global API key when you [disable SSO](#option-2-disable-dashboard-sso).
:::

1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/), go to **Settings** > **Authentication**.
2. In the **Cloudflare dashboard SSO** card, set your email domain to **Enabled**. This action can only be performed by Super Administrators.
3. Do not log out or close your browser window. Instead, open a different browser or an incognito window.
4. In the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com), log in with your email address from your SSO domain.
5. If you can log in successfully, you have successfully set up your dashboard SSO application.
6. If you cannot log in successfully:

   1. Return to Zero Trust and go to **Settings** > **Authentication**.
   2. For **Cloudflare dashboard SSO**, set your email domain to **Disabled**.
   3. [Re-configure your IdP](/cloudflare-one/identity/idp-integration/).

## Limitations

Cloudflare dashboard SSO does not support:

- Users with plus-addressed emails, such as `example+2@domain.com`. If you have users like this added to your Cloudflare organization, they will be unable to login with SSO.
- Adding a separate email-based policy to the SSO application that does not match your SSO domain policy. As your account team must [approve and create your SSO domain](/cloudflare-one/applications/configure-apps/dash-sso-apps/#2-contact-your-account-team) based on the [SSO domain requirements](/cloudflare-one/applications/configure-apps/dash-sso-apps/#sso-domain-requirements), adding a new domain policy on your own will not work.
- Deleting the auto-generated `allow email domain` policy. If this policy was deleted, your organization's administrators would not be able to access the Cloudflare dashboard.

## IdP-initiated SSO

IdP-initiated login is supported for Cloudflare dashboard SSO, with configuration available via your identity provider (IdP).

A step-by-step guide is currently available for Okta, and similar configurations are possible with other identity providers that support custom SSO endpoints.

### Okta

Configure an identity provider (IdP)-initiated single sign-on (SSO) session using Cloudflare Zero Trust and Okta.

#### Prerequisites

1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/), go to **Access** > **Applications** > select your **SSO App**.
2. Select **Configure** to access the application settings.
3. In the **Basic Information** section, copy the **SSO Endpoint URL** and **Access Entity ID or Issuer**. You will need these values for your IdP setup.

#### Configure Okta as the IdP

1. Log in to your [Okta Admin Dashboard](https://login.okta.com/) and go to **Applications** > **Applications**.
2. Select **Create App Integration** to start a new SAML integration to handle the IdP-initated SSO flow.
3. In the pop-up, select **SAML 2.0** and select **Next**.
4. Enter a name for the app and select **Next**.
5. In the **Single Sign-On URL** field, paste the **SSO Endpoint URL** [you copied earlier](/cloudflare-one/applications/configure-apps/dash-sso-apps/#prerequisites-1).
6. In the **Audience URI (SP Entity ID)** field, paste the **Access Entity ID or Issuer** [you copied earlier](/cloudflare-one/applications/configure-apps/dash-sso-apps/#prerequisites-1).
7. Set the **Name ID Format** to **EmailAddress**.
8. Set the **Application Username** to **Email**.
9. Select **Next** > **Finish** to save the integration.
10. Test the integration by going to your Okta User Dashboard, locating the new app tile, and selecting it to verify the SSO flow.

**(Optional) Enforce single IdP login with Instant Auth**

If you use only one IdP (for example, Okta) for Cloudflare SSO and want users to skip the identity provider selection prompt:

1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/), go to **Access** > **Applications** > select your **SSO App**.
2. Go to **Login methods**.
3. Disable **Accept all available identity providers** and ensure only Okta is selected as the login method.
4. Enable **Instant Auth** to allow users to skip identity provider selection.

## Bypass dashboard SSO

This section describes how to restore access to the Cloudflare dashboard in case you are unable to login with SSO.

### Option 1: Add a backup IdP

If there is an issue with your SSO IdP provider, you can add an alternate IdP using the API. The following example shows how to add [Cloudflare One-time PIN](/cloudflare-one/identity/one-time-pin/) as a login method:

1. [Add](/api/resources/zero_trust/subresources/identity_providers/methods/create/) one-time PIN login:

<APIRequest
  path="/accounts/{account_id}/access/identity_providers"
  method="POST"
  json={{
    type: "onetimepin",
    config: {},
  }}
/>

2. [Get](/api/resources/zero_trust/subresources/access/subresources/applications/methods/list/) the `id` of the `dash_sso` Access application. You can use [`jq`](https://jqlang.github.io/jq/download/) to quickly find the correct application:

```bash title="cURL command"
curl 'https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/$ACCOUNT_ID/access/apps' \
--header "Authorization: Bearer $CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN" \
| jq '.result[] | select(.type == "dash_sso")'
```

```json title="Response"
{
  "id": "3537a672-e4d8-4d89-aab9-26cb622918a1",
  "uid": "3537a672-e4d8-4d89-aab9-26cb622918a1",
  "type": "dash_sso",
  "name": "SSO App"
  ...
}
```

3. Using the `id` obtained above, [update](/api/resources/zero_trust/subresources/access/subresources/applications/methods/update/) **SSO App** to accept all identity providers. To avoid overwriting your existing configuration, the PUT request body should contain all fields returned by the previous GET request.

<APIRequest
  path="/accounts/{account_id}/access/apps/{app_id}"
  method="PUT"
  parameters={{ app_id: "3537a672-e4d8-4d89-aab9-26cb622918a1" }}
  json={{
    id: "3537a672-e4d8-4d89-aab9-26cb622918a1",
		uid: "3537a672-e4d8-4d89-aab9-26cb622918a1",
		type: "dash_sso",
		name: "SSO App",
    allowed_idps: [],
    // ... (other existing properties)
  }}
	code={{
		mark: [9]
	}}
/>

Users will now have the option to log in using a one-time PIN.

### Option 2: Disable dashboard SSO

The following API calls will disable SSO enforcement for an account. This action can only be performed by Super Administrators.

1. Get your SSO `connector_id`:

```bash title="cURL command"
curl https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/$ACCOUNT_ID/sso/v2/connectors \
--header "Authorization: Bearer $CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN"
```

```json title="Response"
{
  "result": [
    {
      "connector_id": "2828",
      "connector_tag": "d616ac82cc7f87153112d75a711c5c3c",
      "email_domain": "yourdomain.com",
      "connector_status": "V",
      ...
    }
  ],
  "success": true,
  "errors": [],
  "messages": []
}
```

2. Disable the SSO connector:

```bash title="cURL command"
curl --request PATCH \
'https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/$ACCOUNT_ID/sso/v2/connectors/2828' \
--header "Authorization: Bearer $CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN" \
--header "Content-Type: application/json" \
--data '{
  "sso_connector_status": "DIS"
}'
```

```json title="Response"
{
	"result": {
		"id": "2828"
	},
	"success": true,
	"errors": [],
	"messages": []
}
```

Users can now log in using their Cloudflare account email and password. To re-enable SSO, send a `PATCH` request with `"sso_connector_status" : "V"`.

## Change your team name

Cloudflare does not allow you to change your <GlossaryTooltip term="team name">team name</GlossaryTooltip> while dashboard SSO is enabled. To change your team name, you must disable dashboard SSO and reach out to your account team.

:::caution
Before disabling SSO, make sure you have access to your Cloudflare account email. This will allow you to reset your password in case you get logged out of the Cloudflare dashboard.
:::

1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/), go to **Settings** > **Authentication**.
2. If SSO is enabled, turn off **Cloudflare dashboard SSO**. This action can only be performed by Super Administrators.
3. Ask your account team to delete your **SSO App** from **Access** > **Applications**. The SSO app cannot be deleted using the Zero Trust dashboard or API.
4. Go to **Settings** > **Custom Pages**.
5. Under **Team domain**, select **Edit** to enter the new team name. Select **Save**.
6. In your identity provider, update your Cloudflare integration with the new team name. For example, if you are using a SAML IdP, you will need to update the Single Sign-on URL and Entity ID to `https://<new-team-name>.cloudflareaccess.com/cdn-cgi/access/callback`.
7. Ask your account team to reactivate your SSO domain. Once your SSO domain is reactivated, a new **SSO App** application will appear in Zero Trust under **Access** > **Applications**.
8. In Zero Trust, go to **Settings** > **Authentication**.
9. Turn on **Cloudflare dashboard SSO** to re-enable SSO.
