src/content/docs/waf/troubleshooting/faq.mdx, before:

---
title: FAQ
pcx_content_type: faq
sidebar:
  order: 10
---

## General questions

### Why does a security event display a Cloudflare IP address even though other fields match the client details?

This happens when a request goes through a Cloudflare Worker.

In this case, Cloudflare considers the client details, including its IP address, for triggering security settings. However, the IP displayed in [Security Events](/waf/analytics/security-events/) will be a Cloudflare IP address.

### Do I need to escape certain characters in expressions?

Yes, you may have to escape certain characters in expressions. The exact escaping will depend on the string syntax you use:

- If you use the raw string syntax (for example, `r#"this is a string"#`), you will only need to escape characters that have a special meaning in regular expressions.
- If you use the quoted string syntax (for example, `"this is a string"`), you need to perform additional escaping, such as escaping special characters `"` and `\` using `\"` and `\\`, both in literal strings and in regular expressions.

For more information on string syntaxes and escaping, refer to [String values and regular expressions](/ruleset-engine/rules-language/values/#string-values-and-regular-expressions).

### Why is my regular expression pattern not working?

If you are using a regular expression, it is recommended that you test it with a tool such as [Regular Expressions 101](https://regex101.com/?flavor=rust&regex=) or [Rustexp](https://rustexp.lpil.uk).

### Why are some rules bypassed when I did not create an exception?

If you have [SSL/TLS certificates](/ssl/) managed by Cloudflare, every time a certificate is issued or renewed, a [domain control validation (DCV)](/ssl/edge-certificates/changing-dcv-method/dcv-flow/) must happen. When a certificate is in `pending_validation` state and there are valid DCV tokens in place, some Cloudflare security features such as [custom rules](/waf/custom-rules/) and [Managed Rules](/waf/managed-rules/) will be automatically disabled on specific DCV paths (for example, `/.well-known/pki-validation/` and `/.well-known/acme-challenge/`).

### Why is Cloudflare blocking a specific IP address?

Cloudflare may block an IP address due to various reasons:

- **Security mitigation actions**: Cloudflare protects websites from various online threats, including malicious traffic, DDoS attacks, and common vulnerabilities. If your IP address is associated with suspicious or malicious activity, it might trigger a security check and block requests.

- **High security settings**: The website owner might have set their Cloudflare security settings to a high level, making the filtering of incoming traffic stricter. In this situation, even legitimate users may get blocked or have to solve challenges.

- **Excessive requests**: Cloudflare may block an IP address if it detects an unusually high number of requests in a short period, in which case it will rate limiting subsequent requests. This is a protective measure against potential abuse or attacks.

- **Traffic from malicious bots**: Cloudflare employs bot detection mechanisms to distinguish between legitimate users and automated bots. If traffic from your IP address behaves like traffic from a malicious bot, it could get blocked.

- **Blocklisted IPs**: Cloudflare might block IP addresses listed on public blocklists due to their association with known malicious activities.

If your IP address is blocked, try the following:

- **Check Cloudflare Security Events**: Use the [Security Events](/waf/analytics/security-events/) log to check for specific reasons your IP might be getting blocked. Look for details on the type of threat or activity that triggered the block.

- **Contact the website owner**: If you are a legitimate user and your IP is wrongly blocked, contact the website owner or administrator. They may be able to allowlist your IP or investigate the issue further.

- **Verify your own website traffic**: Check for abnormal activity. If you manage a website behind Cloudflare, ensure that your site's traffic is legitimate and not triggering security measures inadvertently.

- **Check your IP reputation**: Verify whether your IP address is listed on public blocklists, such as [Project Honey Pot](https://projecthoneypot.org/). If so, take steps to address any issues that may have led to the listing.

- **Adjust your security settings**: If you are a website owner using Cloudflare, consider adjusting security settings to find the right balance between protection and accessibility.

## Bots

### How does the WAF handle traffic from known bots?

#### Caution about potentially blocking bots

When you create a custom rule with a _Block_, _Interactive Challenge_, _JS Challenge_, or _Managed Challenge (Recommended)_ action, you might unintentionally block traffic from known bots. Specifically, this might affect search engine optimization (SEO) and website monitoring when trying to enforce a mitigation action based on URI, path, host, ASN, or country.

Refer to [How do I exclude certain requests from being blocked or challenged?](/cloudflare-challenges/frequently-asked-questions/#how-do-i-exclude-certain-requests-from-being-blocked-or-challenged).

#### Bots currently detected

[Cloudflare Radar](https://radar.cloudflare.com/verified-bots) lists a **sample** of known bots that the WAF currently detects. When traffic comes from these bots and others not listed, the `cf.client.bot` field is set to `true`.

To submit a friendly bot to be verified, go to the [**Verified bots**](https://radar.cloudflare.com/traffic/verified-bots) page in Cloudflare Radar and select **Add a bot**.

For more information on verified bots, refer to [Bots](/bots/concepts/bot/).

:::note

There is no functional difference between known and verified bots. However, the known bots field (`cf.client.bot`) is available for all customers, while the verified bots field (`cf.bot_management.verified_bot`) is available for Enterprise customers.
:::

Commit message:

[WAF] Update faq.mdx (#25173)
---------

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

src/content/docs/waf/troubleshooting/faq.mdx, after:

---
title: FAQ
pcx_content_type: faq
sidebar:
  order: 10
---

## General questions

### Why does a security event display a Cloudflare IP address even though other fields match the client details?

This happens when a request goes through a Cloudflare Worker.

In this case, Cloudflare considers the client details, including its IP address, for triggering security settings. However, the IP displayed in [Security Events](/waf/analytics/security-events/) will be a Cloudflare IP address.

### Do I need to escape certain characters in expressions?

Yes, you may have to escape certain characters in expressions. The exact escaping will depend on the string syntax you use:

- If you use the raw string syntax (for example, `r#"this is a string"#`), you will only need to escape characters that have a special meaning in regular expressions.
- If you use the quoted string syntax (for example, `"this is a string"`), you need to perform additional escaping, such as escaping special characters `"` and `\` using `\"` and `\\`, both in literal strings and in regular expressions.

For more information on string syntaxes and escaping, refer to [String values and regular expressions](/ruleset-engine/rules-language/values/#string-values-and-regular-expressions).

### Why is my regular expression pattern not working?

If you are using a regular expression, it is recommended that you test it with a tool such as [Regular Expressions 101](https://regex101.com/?flavor=rust&regex=) or [Rustexp](https://rustexp.lpil.uk).

### Why are some rules bypassed when I did not create an exception?

If you have [SSL/TLS certificates](/ssl/) managed by Cloudflare, every time a certificate is issued or renewed, a [domain control validation (DCV)](/ssl/edge-certificates/changing-dcv-method/dcv-flow/) must happen. When a certificate is in `pending_validation` state and there are valid DCV tokens in place, some Cloudflare security features such as [custom rules](/waf/custom-rules/) and [Managed Rules](/waf/managed-rules/) will be automatically disabled on specific DCV paths (for example, `/.well-known/pki-validation/` and `/.well-known/acme-challenge/`).


### Why have I been blocked?

Cloudflare may block requests when it detects activity that could be unsafe. Common reasons include:

- Security protection against malicious traffic, DDoS attacks, or other threats.
- Excessive requests in a short time (rate limiting).
- Bot-like or automated traffic.
- IP addresses listed on public blocklists, such as [Project Honey Pot](https://projecthoneypot.org/).

If you are a site visitor:

- Contact the site owner, providing details of your actions when the block occurred and the Cloudflare Ray ID displayed at the bottom of the error page.
- Avoid suspicious inputs or automated scripts.
- Check your IP reputation through [Project Honey Pot](https://projecthoneypot.org/).

If you are the site owner:

- Adjust security settings to balance protection with accessibility.
- Monitor blocked requests in your Cloudflare dashboard.
- Allowlist trusted IPs or fine-tune WAF/bot rules to reduce false positives.

## Bots

### How does the WAF handle traffic from known bots?

#### Caution about potentially blocking bots

When you create a custom rule with a _Block_, _Interactive Challenge_, _JS Challenge_, or _Managed Challenge (Recommended)_ action, you might unintentionally block traffic from known bots. Specifically, this might affect search engine optimization (SEO) and website monitoring when trying to enforce a mitigation action based on URI, path, host, ASN, or country.

Refer to [How do I exclude certain requests from being blocked or challenged?](/cloudflare-challenges/frequently-asked-questions/#how-do-i-exclude-certain-requests-from-being-blocked-or-challenged).

#### Bots currently detected

[Cloudflare Radar](https://radar.cloudflare.com/verified-bots) lists a **sample** of known bots that the WAF currently detects. When traffic comes from these bots and others not listed, the `cf.client.bot` field is set to `true`.

To submit a friendly bot to be verified, go to the [**Verified bots**](https://radar.cloudflare.com/traffic/verified-bots) page in Cloudflare Radar and select **Add a bot**.

For more information on verified bots, refer to [Bots](/bots/concepts/bot/).

:::note

There is no functional difference between known and verified bots. However, the known bots field (`cf.client.bot`) is available for all customers, while the verified bots field (`cf.bot_management.verified_bot`) is available for Enterprise customers.
:::
