src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/team-and-resources/devices/warp/deployment/mdm-deployment/partners/jamf.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Jamf
sidebar:
  order: 2
head: []
description: Learn how to deploy Cloudflare WARP using Jamf.
---

import { Render } from "~/components";

## macOS

### Prerequisites

- [Download the `Cloudflare_WARP.pkg` file](/cloudflare-one/team-and-resources/devices/warp/download-warp/#macos)

- [Create a `plist` file](/cloudflare-one/team-and-resources/devices/warp/deployment/mdm-deployment/#create-plist-file)

### 1. Upload the WARP package

1. Log in to your [Jamf](https://www.jamf.com/) account.
2. Go to **Computer** > **All Settings** (gear icon).
3. Select **Computer Management** > **Packages** > **New**.
4. Upload the `Cloudflare_WARP_<VERSION>.pkg` file.
   For the Display name, we recommend entering the version number of the package being uploaded.
5. Select **Save** to complete the upload.

### 2. Create the policy

1. Go to **Computers** > **Policies** > **+ New**.
2. Enter a Display name such as `Cloudflare WARP Client`.\
   For **Triggers**, our recommendation is to select _Startup_, _Login_, _Enrollment Complete_ and _Recurring Check-in_, but you can select the value that works best for your organization.
3. Select **Packages** > **Configure**.
4. Select **Add** next to the `Cloudflare_WARP_<VERSION>.pkg` file you previously uploaded.
5. Select **Save**.

### 3. Add a Configuration Profile

1. Go to **Configuration Profiles** > **New**.
2. Enter a name for your new profile, such as `Cloudflare Zero Trust`.
3. Scroll through the options list and select **Application & Custom Settings** > **Configure**.
4. In **Preference Domain**, enter `com.cloudflare.warp`.
5. Upload your `plist` file and select **Save**.
6. Go to **Scope** to configure which devices in your organization will receive this profile.
7. Select **Save**.

Jamf is now configured to deploy the Cloudflare WARP client.

<Render file="warp/connectivity-status-check" product="cloudflare-one" />

## iOS

The Cloudflare One Agent allows for an automated install via Jamf.

### Prerequisites

Create an [XML file](/cloudflare-one/team-and-resources/devices/warp/deployment/mdm-deployment/#ios) with your custom deployment preferences.

### Configure Jamf for iOS

1. Log in to your [Jamf](https://www.jamf.com/) account.
2. Go to **Devices** > **Mobile Device Apps** > **+ New**.
3. Select _App store app or apps purchased in volume_ and select **Next**.
4. In the search box, enter `Cloudflare One Agent`. Select **Next**.
5. In the row for _Cloudflare One Agent by Cloudflare Inc._, select **Add**. To verify that it is the correct application, view it in the [App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/cloudflare-one-agent/id6443476492).
6. Go to **Scope** and specify the devices in your organization that will receive the application.
7. Go to **App Configuration** and copy/paste your XML file.
8. Select **Save**.

Jamf is now configured to deploy the Cloudflare One Agent.

<Render file="warp/connectivity-status-check" product="cloudflare-one" />

### Per-app VPN

:::note
Per-app VPN is supported on Cloudflare One Agent version `1.8` or greater for iOS.
:::

Before proceeding with per-app VPN configuration, you must make sure [Auto connect](/cloudflare-one/team-and-resources/devices/warp/configure-warp/warp-settings/#auto-connect) is disabled in Zero Trust. To disable Auto connect:

1. In [Zero Trust](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/), go to **Settings** > **WARP Client**.
2. Under **Device Settings**, select your device profile and select **Edit**.
3. Turn off **Auto Connect**.

To configure per-app VPN:

1. Log in to the Jamf dashboard for your organization.
2. Go to **Devices** > **Configuration Policies** > select **+ New**.
3. Under **Options**, select **VPN**. Then:
   - Give the VPN a **Connection Name**.
   - Select _Per-App VPN_ from the **VPN Type** dropdown menu.
   - Check the box for **Automatically start Per-App VPN connection**.
4. Under Per-App VPN Connection Type, set the **Connection Type** to _Custom SSL_ via the dropdown menu. Then, enter `com.cloudflare.cloudflareoneagent` as the **Identifier**, `1.1.1.1` as the **Server**, and `com.cloudflare.cloudflareoneagent.worker` as the **Provider Bundle Identifier**.
5. Set the **Provider Type** to _Packet-Tunnel_ and select the checkboxes for **Include All Networks** and **Enable VPN on Demand**.
6. Go to the **Scope** tab and add the devices that will use the Per-App VPN.
7. Save the Configuration Profile.
8. Go to **Devices** > **Mobile Device Apps** > select **+ New**.
9. As the **App Type**, select **App Store app or apps purchased in volume** and select **Next**.
10. In the search bar, enter the name of the app that you want to use the VPN for and select **Next**.

:::note
Alternatively, if you already know the **Bundle Identifier** of the app you want to go through the VPN, select **Enter Manually**.
:::

11. Find the app you are looking for in the search results and select **Add**.
12. Select your preferred **Distribution Method** and under **Per-App Networking**, select the VPN connection you just configured.
13. Repeat steps 8-12 for each app you want to use the VPN.

:::note

To support re-authentication, you must include a third-party browser that Cloudflare One can use to re-authenticate the user. The following third-party browsers are supported:

- Google Chrome
- Firefox
- Firefox Focus
- Microsoft Edge
- Brave
- Opera

Cloudflare One will continue to use a Safari window for initial authentication per-security best practices.
:::

:::note
Cloudflare One cannot apply split tunnel setting for a per app VPN. Included or excluded domains can be added to the Configuration Profile under Safelisted Domains and Blocklisted Domains sections respectively.
:::

Commit message:

[CF1] Updating UI instructions for `/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/` (#26059)
* Adding files after ZT -> CF1 UI instruction updates

* Adding more changes

* Minor fix

* More iterations

src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/team-and-resources/devices/warp/deployment/mdm-deployment/partners/jamf.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Jamf
sidebar:
  order: 2
head: []
description: Learn how to deploy Cloudflare WARP using Jamf.
---

import { Render } from "~/components";

## macOS

### Prerequisites

- [Download the `Cloudflare_WARP.pkg` file](/cloudflare-one/team-and-resources/devices/warp/download-warp/#macos)

- [Create a `plist` file](/cloudflare-one/team-and-resources/devices/warp/deployment/mdm-deployment/#create-plist-file)

### 1. Upload the WARP package

1. Log in to your [Jamf](https://www.jamf.com/) account.
2. Go to **Computer** > **All Settings** (gear icon).
3. Select **Computer Management** > **Packages** > **New**.
4. Upload the `Cloudflare_WARP_<VERSION>.pkg` file.
   For the Display name, we recommend entering the version number of the package being uploaded.
5. Select **Save** to complete the upload.

### 2. Create the policy

1. Go to **Computers** > **Policies** > **+ New**.
2. Enter a Display name such as `Cloudflare WARP Client`.\
   For **Triggers**, our recommendation is to select _Startup_, _Login_, _Enrollment Complete_ and _Recurring Check-in_, but you can select the value that works best for your organization.
3. Select **Packages** > **Configure**.
4. Select **Add** next to the `Cloudflare_WARP_<VERSION>.pkg` file you previously uploaded.
5. Select **Save**.

### 3. Add a Configuration Profile

1. Go to **Configuration Profiles** > **New**.
2. Enter a name for your new profile, such as `Cloudflare Zero Trust`.
3. Scroll through the options list and select **Application & Custom Settings** > **Configure**.
4. In **Preference Domain**, enter `com.cloudflare.warp`.
5. Upload your `plist` file and select **Save**.
6. Go to **Scope** to configure which devices in your organization will receive this profile.
7. Select **Save**.

Jamf is now configured to deploy the Cloudflare WARP client.

<Render file="warp/connectivity-status-check" product="cloudflare-one" />

## iOS

The Cloudflare One Agent allows for an automated install via Jamf.

### Prerequisites

Create an [XML file](/cloudflare-one/team-and-resources/devices/warp/deployment/mdm-deployment/#ios) with your custom deployment preferences.

### Configure Jamf for iOS

1. Log in to your [Jamf](https://www.jamf.com/) account.
2. Go to **Devices** > **Mobile Device Apps** > **+ New**.
3. Select _App store app or apps purchased in volume_ and select **Next**.
4. In the search box, enter `Cloudflare One Agent`. Select **Next**.
5. In the row for _Cloudflare One Agent by Cloudflare Inc._, select **Add**. To verify that it is the correct application, view it in the [App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/cloudflare-one-agent/id6443476492).
6. Go to **Scope** and specify the devices in your organization that will receive the application.
7. Go to **App Configuration** and copy/paste your XML file.
8. Select **Save**.

Jamf is now configured to deploy the Cloudflare One Agent.

<Render file="warp/connectivity-status-check" product="cloudflare-one" />

### Per-app VPN

:::note
Per-app VPN is supported on Cloudflare One Agent version `1.8` or greater for iOS.
:::

Before proceeding with per-app VPN configuration, you must make sure [Auto connect](/cloudflare-one/team-and-resources/devices/warp/configure-warp/warp-settings/#auto-connect) is disabled in Zero Trust. To disable Auto connect:

1. In [Cloudflare One](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/), go to **Team & Resources** > **Devices** > **Device profiles**.
2. Under **Profiles**, select your device profile and select **Edit**.
3. Turn off **Auto Connect**.

To configure per-app VPN:

1. Log in to the Jamf dashboard for your organization.
2. Go to **Devices** > **Configuration Policies** > select **+ New**.
3. Under **Options**, select **VPN**. Then:
   - Give the VPN a **Connection Name**.
   - Select _Per-App VPN_ from the **VPN Type** dropdown menu.
   - Check the box for **Automatically start Per-App VPN connection**.
4. Under Per-App VPN Connection Type, set the **Connection Type** to _Custom SSL_ via the dropdown menu. Then, enter `com.cloudflare.cloudflareoneagent` as the **Identifier**, `1.1.1.1` as the **Server**, and `com.cloudflare.cloudflareoneagent.worker` as the **Provider Bundle Identifier**.
5. Set the **Provider Type** to _Packet-Tunnel_ and select the checkboxes for **Include All Networks** and **Enable VPN on Demand**.
6. Go to the **Scope** tab and add the devices that will use the Per-App VPN.
7. Save the Configuration Profile.
8. Go to **Devices** > **Mobile Device Apps** > select **+ New**.
9. As the **App Type**, select **App Store app or apps purchased in volume** and select **Next**.
10. In the search bar, enter the name of the app that you want to use the VPN for and select **Next**.

:::note
Alternatively, if you already know the **Bundle Identifier** of the app you want to go through the VPN, select **Enter Manually**.
:::

11. Find the app you are looking for in the search results and select **Add**.
12. Select your preferred **Distribution Method** and under **Per-App Networking**, select the VPN connection you just configured.
13. Repeat steps 8-12 for each app you want to use the VPN.

:::note

To support re-authentication, you must include a third-party browser that Cloudflare One can use to re-authenticate the user. The following third-party browsers are supported:

- Google Chrome
- Firefox
- Firefox Focus
- Microsoft Edge
- Brave
- Opera

Cloudflare One will continue to use a Safari window for initial authentication per-security best practices.
:::

:::note
Cloudflare One cannot apply split tunnel setting for a per app VPN. Included or excluded domains can be added to the Configuration Profile under Safelisted Domains and Blocklisted Domains sections respectively.
:::
