src/content/partials/networking-services/magic-wan/third-party/pfsense.mdx, before:

---
params:
  - configureTwoIpsecTunnelsUrl
  - addTunnelsUrl
  - staticRouteUrl
---

This tutorial includes the steps required to configure IPsec tunnels to connect a pfSense firewall to Cloudflare Magic WAN.

## Software tested

| Manufacturer | Firmware revision |
| ------------ | ----------------- |
| pfSense      | 24.03             |

## Prerequisites

For this tutorial, you will need to know the following information:

- Your Anycast IP addresses (given to you by Cloudflare)
- External IP addresses
- Internal IP address ranges
- Inside tunnel `/31` ranges

## Example scenario

The following IP addresses are used throughout this tutorial. Any legally routable IP addresses have been replaced with IPv4 Address Blocks Reserved for Documentation ([RFC 5737](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5737)) addresses within the `203.0.113.0/24` subnet.

| Tunnel name                        | `PF_TUNNEL_01`                | `PF_TUNNEL_02`                |
| ---------------------------------- | ----------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| Interface address                  | `10.252.2.26/31`              | `10.252.2.28/31`              |
| Customer endpoint                  | `203.0.113.254`               | `203.0.113.254`               |
| Cloudflare endpoint                | `<YOUR_ANYCAST_IP_ADDRESS_1>` | `<YOUR_ANYCAST_IP_ADDRESS_2>` |
| Pfsense IPsec Phase 2 Local IP     | `10.252.2.27`                 | `10.252.2.29`                 |
| Pfsense IPsec Phase 2 Remote IP    | `10.252.2.26`                 | `10.252.2.28`                 |
| Magic WAN static routes - Prefix   | `10.1.100.0/24`               | `10.1.100.0/24`               |
| Magic WAN static routes - Next hop | `PF_TUNNEL_01`                | `PF_TUNNEL_02`                |

## 1. Configure Magic WAN IPsec tunnels

Use the Cloudflare dashboard or API to <a href={props.configureTwoIpsecTunnelsUrl}>configure two IPsec tunnels</a>. The settings mentioned below are used for the IPsec tunnels referenced throughout the remainder of this guide.

### Add IPsec tunnels

1. Follow the <a href={props.addTunnelsUrl}>Add tunnels</a> instructions to create the required IPsec tunnels with the following options:
   - **Tunnel name**: `PF_TUNNEL_01`
   - **Interface address**: `10.252.2.26/31`
   - **Customer endpoint**: `203.0.113.254`
   - **Cloudflare endpoint**: Enter the Anycast IP address provided by Cloudflare.
   - **Health check rate**: _Medium_
   - **Health check type**: _Request_
   - **Health check direction**: _Bidirectional_
	- **Turn on replay protection**: Enable
2. Select **Add pre-shared key later** > **Add tunnels**.
3. Repeat the process to create a second IPsec tunnel with the following options:
   - **Tunnel name**: `PF_TUNNEL_02`
   - **Interface address**: `10.252.2.28/31`
   - **Customer endpoint**: `203.0.113.254`
   - **Cloudflare endpoint**: Enter the Anycast IP address provided by Cloudflare.
   - **Health check rate**: _Medium_
   - **Health check type**: _Request_
   - **Health check direction**: _Bidirectional_
   - **Turn on replay protection**: Enable
4. Select **Add pre-shared key later** > **Add tunnels**.

:::note
If site-to-site traffic is a requirement for your use case, you need to enable replay protection. Refer to <a href={props.addTunnelsUrl}>Add tunnels</a> > IPsec tunnel to learn how to enable this feature.
:::

### Generate pre-shared keys

When you create IPsec tunnels with the option **Add pre-shared key later**, the Cloudflare dashboard will show you a warning indicator.

1. Select **Edit** to edit the properties of each IPsec tunnel you have created.
2. Select **Generate a new pre-shared key** > **Update and generate pre-shared key**.
3. Copy the pre-shared key value for each of your IPsec tunnels, and save these values somewhere safe. Then, select **Done**.

:::note
Take note of your pre-shared keys, and keep them in a safe place to use later in pfSense.
:::

### IPsec identifier - User ID

After creating your IPsec tunnels, the Cloudflare dashboard will list them under **Tunnels**. To retrieve your IPsec tunnel's user ID:

1. Go to **Magic WAN** > **Configuration**.
2. Select **Tunnels**.
3. Select the IPsec tunnel.
4. Scroll to **User ID** and copy the string. For example, `ipsec@long_string_of_letters_and_numbers`.

The User ID will be required when configuring IKE Phase 1 on the pfSense firewall.

## 2. Create Magic WAN static routes

Create a <a href={props.staticRouteUrl}>static route</a> for each of the two IPsec tunnels configured in the previous section, with the following settings (settings not mentioned here can be left with their default values):

### Tunnel 01

- **Description**: `PF_TUNNEL_01`
- **Prefix**: `10.1.100.0/24`
- **Tunnel/Next hop**: `PF_TUNNEL_01`

### Tunnel 02

- **Description**: `PF_TUNNEL_02`
- **Prefix**: `10.1.100.0/24`
- **Tunnel/Next hop**: `PF_TUNNEL_02`

## 3. Configure the pfSense firewall

Install pfSense and boot up. Then, assign and set LAN and WAN interfaces, as well as IP addresses. For example:

- **LAN**: `203.0.113.254`
- **WAN**: `<YOUR_WAN_ADDRESS>`

### Configure IPsec Phase 1

Add a new IPsec tunnel [Phase 1 entry](https://docs.netgate.com/pfsense/en/latest/vpn/ipsec/configure-p1.html), with the following settings:

- **General Information**
  - **Description**: `CF1_IPsec_P1`
- **IKE Endpoint Configuration**
  - **Key exchange version**: _IKE_v2_
  - **Internet Protocol**: _IPv4_
  - **Interface**: _WAN_
  - **Remote gateway**: Enter your Cloudflare Anycast IP address.
- **Phase 1 Proposal (Authentication)**
  - **Authentication method**: _Mutual PSK_
  - **My identifier**: _User Fully qualified domain name_ > `ipsec@long_string_of_letters_and_numbers` <br/> (You can get this identifier from your Cloudflare IPsec tunnel configuration > **User ID**)
  - **Peer identifier**: _Peer IP Address_ (your Cloudflare Anycast IP)
  - **Pre-Shared Key**: Enter the PSK you have on your Cloudflare IPsec tunnel.
- **Phase 1 proposal (Encryption algorithm)**
  - **Encryption algorithm**: _AES 256 bits_
  - **Key length**: _256 bits_
  - **Hash algorithm**: _SHA256_
  - **DH key group**: _20_
  - **Lifetime**: `86400`


### Configure IPsec Phase 2

Add a new IPsec tunnel [Phase 2 entry](https://docs.netgate.com/pfsense/en/latest/vpn/ipsec/configure-p2.html), with the following settings. You need to create an entry for tunnel 1 and 2, making the appropriate changes for the IP addresses for local and remote network:

- **General Information**
  - **Description**: `CF1_IPsec_P2`
  - **Mode**: _Routed (VTI)_
- **Networks**
  - **Local Network**: _Address_ > Upper IP address in the `/31` assigned in Cloudflare tunnel. For example, `10.252.2.27` for tunnel 1 and `10.252.2.29` for tunnel 2.
  - **Remote Network**: _Address_ > Lower IP address in the `/31` for Cloudflare side. For example, `10.252.2.26` for tunnel 1, and `10.252.2.28` for tunnel 2.
- **Phase 2 Proposal (SA/Key Exchange)**
  - **Protocol**: _ESP_
  - **Encryption algorithm**: _AES 256 bits_
  - **Hash algorithm**: _SHA256_
  - **DH key group**: _20_
  - **Lifetime**: `28800`

When you are finished, apply your changes. If you go to **Status** > **IPsec**, you should be able to check that both Phase 1 and Phase 2 are connected.

<div class="full-img">

![pfSense IPsec overview](~/assets/images/magic-wan/third-party/pfsense/ipsec-overview.png)

</div>

### Interface assignments

In **Interfaces** > **Assignments** > **Add**, create a new interface to assign to the first IPsec tunnel, with the following settings:

- **General configuration**
  - **Description**: `CF1_IPsec_1`
  - **MSS**: `1446`
- **Interface Assignments**
  - **WAN**: Add your WAN interface. For example, `vnet1`.
  - **LAN**: Add your LAN interface. For example, `vnet0`.
  - Add your **CF_IPsec_1** that you have created above for Phase 1.

Select **Save** when you are finished.

<div class="full-img">

![Assign a new interface to the first IPsec tunnel](~/assets/images/magic-wan/third-party/pfsense/interfaces.png)

</div>

<div class="full-img">

![Configuring interface assignments](~/assets/images/magic-wan/third-party/pfsense/interface-assignments.png)

</div>

### Gateway

In **System** > **Routing** > **Gateways** there should already be a gateway. For this example, it is named `CF1_IPSEC_1_VTIV4`.

<div class="full-img">

![There should already be a gateway configured in the interface](~/assets/images/magic-wan/third-party/pfsense/gateways.png)

</div>

### Firewall Rules IPsec

1. In **Firewall Rules** > **IPsec interface**, allow any type of traffic.

<div class="full-img">

![Allow all traffic for IPsec](~/assets/images/magic-wan/third-party/pfsense/firewall-ipsec.png)

</div>

2. Navigate to **Status** > **Gateways**. `CF1_IPSEC_1_VTIV4` should now be online.

<div class="full-img">

![The gateway should now be online](~/assets/images/magic-wan/third-party/pfsense/status-gateways.png)

</div>

### Firewall Rules LAN

1. In **Firewall** > **Rules** > **LAN**, allow any type of traffic.
2. Expand the **Advanced** section.
3. Change the Gateway to `CF1_IPSEC_1_VTIV4`.

<div class="full-img">

![Change the gateway in the firewall rules for LAN traffic](~/assets/images/magic-wan/third-party/pfsense/firewall-lan.png)

</div>

Commit message:

[Magic] DashButton implementation  (#26732)
* added dashbutton

* added dashbutton

* added dashbutton

* dashbutton

* dashbutton

* dashbutton

* refined text

* dashbutton

* dashbutton

* dashbutton

* dashbutton

* dashbutton

* dashbutton

* dashbutton

* dashbutton

* dashbutton

* refined steps

* refined wording

* refined text

* refined text

* refined text

* refined text

* refined text

src/content/partials/networking-services/magic-wan/third-party/pfsense.mdx, after:

---
params:
  - configureTwoIpsecTunnelsUrl
  - addTunnelsUrl
  - staticRouteUrl
---

import { DashButton } from "~/components";

This tutorial includes the steps required to configure IPsec tunnels to connect a pfSense firewall to Cloudflare Magic WAN.

## Software tested

| Manufacturer | Firmware revision |
| ------------ | ----------------- |
| pfSense      | 24.03             |

## Prerequisites

For this tutorial, you will need to know the following information:

- Your Anycast IP addresses (given to you by Cloudflare)
- External IP addresses
- Internal IP address ranges
- Inside tunnel `/31` ranges

## Example scenario

The following IP addresses are used throughout this tutorial. Any legally routable IP addresses have been replaced with IPv4 Address Blocks Reserved for Documentation ([RFC 5737](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5737)) addresses within the `203.0.113.0/24` subnet.

| Tunnel name                        | `PF_TUNNEL_01`                | `PF_TUNNEL_02`                |
| ---------------------------------- | ----------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| Interface address                  | `10.252.2.26/31`              | `10.252.2.28/31`              |
| Customer endpoint                  | `203.0.113.254`               | `203.0.113.254`               |
| Cloudflare endpoint                | `<YOUR_ANYCAST_IP_ADDRESS_1>` | `<YOUR_ANYCAST_IP_ADDRESS_2>` |
| Pfsense IPsec Phase 2 Local IP     | `10.252.2.27`                 | `10.252.2.29`                 |
| Pfsense IPsec Phase 2 Remote IP    | `10.252.2.26`                 | `10.252.2.28`                 |
| Magic WAN static routes - Prefix   | `10.1.100.0/24`               | `10.1.100.0/24`               |
| Magic WAN static routes - Next hop | `PF_TUNNEL_01`                | `PF_TUNNEL_02`                |

## 1. Configure Magic WAN IPsec tunnels

Use the Cloudflare dashboard or API to <a href={props.configureTwoIpsecTunnelsUrl}>configure two IPsec tunnels</a>. The settings mentioned below are used for the IPsec tunnels referenced throughout the remainder of this guide.

### Add IPsec tunnels

1. Follow the <a href={props.addTunnelsUrl}>Add tunnels</a> instructions to create the required IPsec tunnels with the following options:
   - **Tunnel name**: `PF_TUNNEL_01`
   - **Interface address**: `10.252.2.26/31`
   - **Customer endpoint**: `203.0.113.254`
   - **Cloudflare endpoint**: Enter the Anycast IP address provided by Cloudflare.
   - **Health check rate**: _Medium_
   - **Health check type**: _Request_
   - **Health check direction**: _Bidirectional_
	- **Turn on replay protection**: Enable
2. Select **Add pre-shared key later** > **Add tunnels**.
3. Repeat the process to create a second IPsec tunnel with the following options:
   - **Tunnel name**: `PF_TUNNEL_02`
   - **Interface address**: `10.252.2.28/31`
   - **Customer endpoint**: `203.0.113.254`
   - **Cloudflare endpoint**: Enter the Anycast IP address provided by Cloudflare.
   - **Health check rate**: _Medium_
   - **Health check type**: _Request_
   - **Health check direction**: _Bidirectional_
   - **Turn on replay protection**: Enable
4. Select **Add pre-shared key later** > **Add tunnels**.

:::note
If site-to-site traffic is a requirement for your use case, you need to enable replay protection. Refer to <a href={props.addTunnelsUrl}>Add tunnels</a> > IPsec tunnel to learn how to enable this feature.
:::

### Generate pre-shared keys

When you create IPsec tunnels with the option **Add pre-shared key later**, the Cloudflare dashboard will show you a warning indicator.

1. Select **Edit** to edit the properties of each IPsec tunnel you have created.
2. Select **Generate a new pre-shared key** > **Update and generate pre-shared key**.
3. Copy the pre-shared key value for each of your IPsec tunnels, and save these values somewhere safe. Then, select **Done**.

:::note
Take note of your pre-shared keys, and keep them in a safe place to use later in pfSense.
:::

### IPsec identifier - User ID

After creating your IPsec tunnels, the Cloudflare dashboard will list them under **Tunnels**. To retrieve your IPsec tunnel's user ID:

1. Go to **Tunnels** in the Cloudflare dashboard.

	<DashButton url="/?to=/:account/magic-wan/configuration" />

2. Select the IPsec tunnel.
3. Scroll to **User ID** and copy the string. For example, `ipsec@long_string_of_letters_and_numbers`.

The User ID will be required when configuring IKE Phase 1 on the pfSense firewall.

## 2. Create Magic WAN static routes

Create a <a href={props.staticRouteUrl}>static route</a> for each of the two IPsec tunnels configured in the previous section, with the following settings (settings not mentioned here can be left with their default values):

### Tunnel 01

- **Description**: `PF_TUNNEL_01`
- **Prefix**: `10.1.100.0/24`
- **Tunnel/Next hop**: `PF_TUNNEL_01`

### Tunnel 02

- **Description**: `PF_TUNNEL_02`
- **Prefix**: `10.1.100.0/24`
- **Tunnel/Next hop**: `PF_TUNNEL_02`

## 3. Configure the pfSense firewall

Install pfSense and boot up. Then, assign and set LAN and WAN interfaces, as well as IP addresses. For example:

- **LAN**: `203.0.113.254`
- **WAN**: `<YOUR_WAN_ADDRESS>`

### Configure IPsec Phase 1

Add a new IPsec tunnel [Phase 1 entry](https://docs.netgate.com/pfsense/en/latest/vpn/ipsec/configure-p1.html), with the following settings:

- **General Information**
  - **Description**: `CF1_IPsec_P1`
- **IKE Endpoint Configuration**
  - **Key exchange version**: _IKE_v2_
  - **Internet Protocol**: _IPv4_
  - **Interface**: _WAN_
  - **Remote gateway**: Enter your Cloudflare Anycast IP address.
- **Phase 1 Proposal (Authentication)**
  - **Authentication method**: _Mutual PSK_
  - **My identifier**: _User Fully qualified domain name_ > `ipsec@long_string_of_letters_and_numbers` <br/> (You can get this identifier from your Cloudflare IPsec tunnel configuration > **User ID**)
  - **Peer identifier**: _Peer IP Address_ (your Cloudflare Anycast IP)
  - **Pre-Shared Key**: Enter the PSK you have on your Cloudflare IPsec tunnel.
- **Phase 1 proposal (Encryption algorithm)**
  - **Encryption algorithm**: _AES 256 bits_
  - **Key length**: _256 bits_
  - **Hash algorithm**: _SHA256_
  - **DH key group**: _20_
  - **Lifetime**: `86400`


### Configure IPsec Phase 2

Add a new IPsec tunnel [Phase 2 entry](https://docs.netgate.com/pfsense/en/latest/vpn/ipsec/configure-p2.html), with the following settings. You need to create an entry for tunnel 1 and 2, making the appropriate changes for the IP addresses for local and remote network:

- **General Information**
  - **Description**: `CF1_IPsec_P2`
  - **Mode**: _Routed (VTI)_
- **Networks**
  - **Local Network**: _Address_ > Upper IP address in the `/31` assigned in Cloudflare tunnel. For example, `10.252.2.27` for tunnel 1 and `10.252.2.29` for tunnel 2.
  - **Remote Network**: _Address_ > Lower IP address in the `/31` for Cloudflare side. For example, `10.252.2.26` for tunnel 1, and `10.252.2.28` for tunnel 2.
- **Phase 2 Proposal (SA/Key Exchange)**
  - **Protocol**: _ESP_
  - **Encryption algorithm**: _AES 256 bits_
  - **Hash algorithm**: _SHA256_
  - **DH key group**: _20_
  - **Lifetime**: `28800`

When you are finished, apply your changes. If you go to **Status** > **IPsec**, you should be able to check that both Phase 1 and Phase 2 are connected.

<div class="full-img">

![pfSense IPsec overview](~/assets/images/magic-wan/third-party/pfsense/ipsec-overview.png)

</div>

### Interface assignments

In **Interfaces** > **Assignments** > **Add**, create a new interface to assign to the first IPsec tunnel, with the following settings:

- **General configuration**
  - **Description**: `CF1_IPsec_1`
  - **MSS**: `1446`
- **Interface Assignments**
  - **WAN**: Add your WAN interface. For example, `vnet1`.
  - **LAN**: Add your LAN interface. For example, `vnet0`.
  - Add your **CF_IPsec_1** that you have created above for Phase 1.

Select **Save** when you are finished.

<div class="full-img">

![Assign a new interface to the first IPsec tunnel](~/assets/images/magic-wan/third-party/pfsense/interfaces.png)

</div>

<div class="full-img">

![Configuring interface assignments](~/assets/images/magic-wan/third-party/pfsense/interface-assignments.png)

</div>

### Gateway

In **System** > **Routing** > **Gateways** there should already be a gateway. For this example, it is named `CF1_IPSEC_1_VTIV4`.

<div class="full-img">

![There should already be a gateway configured in the interface](~/assets/images/magic-wan/third-party/pfsense/gateways.png)

</div>

### Firewall Rules IPsec

1. In **Firewall Rules** > **IPsec interface**, allow any type of traffic.

<div class="full-img">

![Allow all traffic for IPsec](~/assets/images/magic-wan/third-party/pfsense/firewall-ipsec.png)

</div>

2. Navigate to **Status** > **Gateways**. `CF1_IPSEC_1_VTIV4` should now be online.

<div class="full-img">

![The gateway should now be online](~/assets/images/magic-wan/third-party/pfsense/status-gateways.png)

</div>

### Firewall Rules LAN

1. In **Firewall** > **Rules** > **LAN**, allow any type of traffic.
2. Expand the **Advanced** section.
3. Change the Gateway to `CF1_IPSEC_1_VTIV4`.

<div class="full-img">

![Change the gateway in the firewall rules for LAN traffic](~/assets/images/magic-wan/third-party/pfsense/firewall-lan.png)

</div>
