src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/cloudflare-tunnel/private-net/warp-connector/site-to-site.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Connect two or more private networks
sidebar:
  label: Site-to-site
  order: 3
---

import { Render, Details, GlossaryTooltip, TabItem, Tabs } from "~/components";

This guide covers how to connect two independent subnets with WARP Connector. Each subnet must run its own WARP Connector on a Linux host. Installing on your router is the simplest setup, but if you do not have access to the router, you may choose any other machine on the subnet.

```mermaid
    flowchart LR
      subgraph subnet1[Subnet 10.0.0.0/24]
      router1["WARP Connector #1
        10.0.0.1"]
      end
      subgraph subnet2[Subnet 192.168.1.0/24]
        router2["WARP Connector #2
        192.168.1.97"]
      end
      router1<-->C((Cloudflare))<-->router2
```

In this example, we will create a WARP Connector for subnet `10.0.0.0/24` and install it on `10.0.0.1`. We will then create a second WARP Connector for subnet `192.168.1.0/24` and install it on `192.168.1.97`.

## Prerequisites

- A Linux host [^1] on each subnet.
- Verify that your firewall allows inbound/outbound traffic over the [WARP IP addresses, ports, and domains](/cloudflare-one/team-and-resources/devices/warp/deployment/firewall/).

## 1. Install a WARP Connector

<Render file="tunnel/warp-connector-install" product="cloudflare-one" />

## 2. (Recommended) Create a device profile

<Render file="tunnel/warp-connector-device-profile" product="cloudflare-one" />

## 3. Route traffic between WARP Connector and Cloudflare

1. In [Cloudflare One](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com), go to **Networks** > **Routes**.
2. Select **Add a route**.
3. In **CIDR**, enter the private IPv4 address range that you wish to route through this WARP Connector (for example, `10.0.0.0/24`). WARP Connector does not currently support IPv6 routes.
   :::note
   If you do not already have a private network range, you can choose a subnet from one of these [pre-defined CIDRs](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc1918#section-3).
   :::
4. For **Tunnel**, select the name of your WARP Connector (_Subnet-10.0.0.0/24_).
5. Select **Create**.
6. In your WARP Connector device profile, [configure Split Tunnels](/cloudflare-one/team-and-resources/devices/warp/configure-warp/route-traffic/split-tunnels/) so that traffic to your private network CIDR (`10.0.0.0/24`) routes through the WARP tunnel. For example, if you are using **Exclude** mode, delete `10.0.0.0/8` from Split Tunnels and re-add the following IPs: `10.0.1.0/24`, `10.0.2.0/23`, `10.0.4.0/22`, `10.0.8.0/21`, `10.0.16.0/20`, `10.0.32.0/19`, `10.0.64.0/18`, `10.0.128.0/17`, `10.1.0.0/16`, `10.2.0.0/15`, `10.4.0.0/14`, `10.8.0.0/13`, `10.16.0.0/12`, `10.32.0.0/11`, `10.64.0.0/10`, `10.128.0.0/9`

The WARP Connector will now forward inbound requests to devices on the subnet.

```mermaid
    flowchart LR
      subgraph subnet1[Subnet 10.0.0.0/24]
      router1["WARP Connector #1
        10.0.0.1"]
			device["Device
        10.0.0.2"]
      end

      C((Cloudflare))--Requests to 10.0.0.2--> router1 --> device

```

### DNS filtering

If you would like to filter private DNS queries using Cloudflare Gateway, check [Split Tunnels](/cloudflare-one/team-and-resources/devices/warp/configure-warp/route-traffic/split-tunnels/) and ensure that the following IPs route through WARP Connector:
	- Internal DNS resolver IP
	- <GlossaryTooltip term="initial resolved IP">Initial resolved IP</GlossaryTooltip> CGNAT range:
		<Render file="gateway/egress-selector-cgnat-ips" 	product="cloudflare-one"/>

When you resolve DNS queries from WARP Connector through Gateway, Gateway will log the queries with the private source IP. You can use the private source IP to create [resolver policies](/cloudflare-one/traffic-policies/resolver-policies/) for queries intended for [internal DNS records](/cloudflare-one/traffic-policies/resolver-policies/#internal-dns).

## 4. Route traffic from subnet to WARP Connector

The WARP Connector host will automatically forward DNS and network traffic to Cloudflare. Depending on where you installed the WARP Connector, you may need to configure other devices on the subnet to route outbound requests through WARP Connector.

```mermaid
    flowchart LR
      subgraph subnet1[Subnet 10.0.0.0/24]
      router1["WARP Connector #1
        10.0.0.1"]
			device["Device
        10.0.0.2"]
      end

      device --Requests to
			192.168.1.0/24 --> router1 --> C((Cloudflare))

```

### Option 1: Default gateway

<Render file="tunnel/warp-connector-default-gateway" product="cloudflare-one" />

### Option 2: Alternate gateway

<Render
	file="tunnel/warp-connector-alternate-gateway"
	product="cloudflare-one"
/>

#### Add IP route to router

For example, for devices on subnet `10.0.0.0/24` to reach applications behind subnet `192.168.1.0/24`, add a rule on the router that routes `192.168.1.0/24` to the WARP Connector host machine (`10.0.0.100`).

<Render
	file="tunnel/warp-connector-alternate-gateway-flow"
	product="cloudflare-one"
/>

#### Configure DNS resolver on router

<Render
	file="tunnel/warp-connector-alternate-gateway-dns"
	product="cloudflare-one"
/>

### Option 3: Intermediate gateway

<Render
	file="tunnel/warp-connector-intermediate-gateway"
	product="cloudflare-one"
/>

#### Add IP route to devices

<Render
	file="tunnel/warp-connector-route-all-traffic"
	product="cloudflare-one"
/>

Alternatively, you can configure only certain routes to egress through WARP Connector. For example, you may only want to filter traffic destined to internal applications and devices, but allow public Internet traffic to bypass Cloudflare.

<Tabs> <TabItem label="Linux">

```sh
sudo ip route add <DESTINATION-IP> via <WARP-CONNECTOR-IP> dev eth0
```

</TabItem> <TabItem label="macOS">

```sh
sudo route -n add -net <DESTINATION-IP> <WARP-CONNECTOR-IP>
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Windows">

```bash
route /p add <DESTINATION-IP> mask 255.255.255.255 <WARP-CONNECTOR-IP>
```

</TabItem> </Tabs>

<Render file="tunnel/warp-connector-verify-routes" product="cloudflare-one" />

#### Configure DNS resolver on devices

<Render
	file="tunnel/warp-connector-intermediate-gateway-dns"
	product="cloudflare-one"
/>

## 5. Install another WARP Connector

Repeat steps 1, 3, and 4 above to install an additional WARP Connector on subnet `192.168.1.0/24`. The device profile created in Step 2 will apply to all WARP Connectors.

```mermaid
    flowchart LR
      subgraph subnet1[Subnet 10.0.0.0/24]
      router1["WARP Connector #1
        10.0.0.1"]
      end
      subgraph subnet2[Subnet 192.168.1.0/24]
        router2["WARP Connector #2
        192.168.1.97"]
      end
      router1<-->C((Cloudflare))<-->router2
```

## 6. Test the WARP Connector

You can now test the connection between the two subnets. For example, on the `10.0.0.2` device run `ping 192.168.1.100`.

```mermaid
    flowchart LR
      subgraph subnet1[Subnet 10.0.0.0/24]
        device1["Device
        10.0.0.2"]--"ping
        192.168.1.100"-->router1["WARP Connector #1
        10.0.0.1"]
      end
      subgraph subnet2[Subnet 192.168.1.0/24]
        router2["WARP Connector #2
        192.168.1.97"]-->device2["Device
        192.168.1.100"]
      end
      router1-->C((Cloudflare))-->router2
```

:::note
If you are testing with curl using private hostnames, add the `--ipv4` flag to your curl commands.
:::

Your [Gateway activity logs](/cloudflare-one/insights/logs/gateway-logs/) will show traffic associated with the email `warp_connector@<your-team-name>.cloudflareaccess.com`.

[^1]:
    <Render
    	file="tunnel/warp-connector-linux-packages"
    	product="cloudflare-one"
    />

Commit message:

[ZT]ping the WARP Connector LAN IP (#28095)
* ping the WARP Connector LAN IP

* edit terminology

src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/networks/connectors/cloudflare-tunnel/private-net/warp-connector/site-to-site.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Connect two or more private networks
sidebar:
  label: Site-to-site
  order: 3
---

import { Render, Details, GlossaryTooltip, TabItem, Tabs } from "~/components";

This guide covers how to connect two independent subnets with WARP Connector. Each subnet must run its own WARP Connector on a Linux host. Installing on your router is the simplest setup, but if you do not have access to the router, you may choose any other machine on the subnet.

```mermaid
    flowchart LR
      subgraph subnet1[Subnet 10.0.0.0/24]
      router1["WARP Connector #1
        10.0.0.1"]
      end
      subgraph subnet2[Subnet 192.168.1.0/24]
        router2["WARP Connector #2
        192.168.1.97"]
      end
      router1<-->C((Cloudflare))<-->router2
```

In this example, we will create a WARP Connector for subnet `10.0.0.0/24` and install it on `10.0.0.1`. We will then create a second WARP Connector for subnet `192.168.1.0/24` and install it on `192.168.1.97`.

## Prerequisites

- A Linux host [^1] on each subnet.
- Verify that your firewall allows inbound/outbound traffic over the [WARP IP addresses, ports, and domains](/cloudflare-one/team-and-resources/devices/warp/deployment/firewall/).

## 1. Install a WARP Connector

<Render file="tunnel/warp-connector-install" product="cloudflare-one" />

## 2. (Recommended) Create a device profile

<Render file="tunnel/warp-connector-device-profile" product="cloudflare-one" />

## 3. Route traffic between WARP Connector and Cloudflare

1. In [Cloudflare One](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com), go to **Networks** > **Routes**.
2. Select **Add a route**.
3. In **CIDR**, enter the private IPv4 address range that you wish to route through this WARP Connector (for example, `10.0.0.0/24`). WARP Connector does not currently support IPv6 routes.
   :::note
   If you do not already have a private network range, you can choose a subnet from one of these [pre-defined CIDRs](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc1918#section-3).
   :::
4. For **Tunnel**, select the name of your WARP Connector (_Subnet-10.0.0.0/24_).
5. Select **Create**.
6. In your WARP Connector device profile, [configure Split Tunnels](/cloudflare-one/team-and-resources/devices/warp/configure-warp/route-traffic/split-tunnels/) so that traffic to your private network CIDR (`10.0.0.0/24`) routes through the WARP tunnel. For example, if you are using **Exclude** mode, delete `10.0.0.0/8` from Split Tunnels and re-add the following IPs: `10.0.1.0/24`, `10.0.2.0/23`, `10.0.4.0/22`, `10.0.8.0/21`, `10.0.16.0/20`, `10.0.32.0/19`, `10.0.64.0/18`, `10.0.128.0/17`, `10.1.0.0/16`, `10.2.0.0/15`, `10.4.0.0/14`, `10.8.0.0/13`, `10.16.0.0/12`, `10.32.0.0/11`, `10.64.0.0/10`, `10.128.0.0/9`

The WARP Connector will now forward inbound requests to devices on the subnet.

```mermaid
    flowchart LR
      subgraph subnet1[Subnet 10.0.0.0/24]
      router1["WARP Connector #1
        10.0.0.1"]
			device["Device
        10.0.0.2"]
      end

      C((Cloudflare))--Requests to 10.0.0.2--> router1 --> device

```

### DNS filtering

If you would like to filter private DNS queries using Cloudflare Gateway, check [Split Tunnels](/cloudflare-one/team-and-resources/devices/warp/configure-warp/route-traffic/split-tunnels/) and ensure that the following IPs route through WARP Connector:
	- Internal DNS resolver IP
	- <GlossaryTooltip term="initial resolved IP">Initial resolved IP</GlossaryTooltip> CGNAT range:
		<Render file="gateway/egress-selector-cgnat-ips" 	product="cloudflare-one"/>

When you resolve DNS queries from WARP Connector through Gateway, Gateway will log the queries with the private source IP. You can use the private source IP to create [resolver policies](/cloudflare-one/traffic-policies/resolver-policies/) for queries intended for [internal DNS records](/cloudflare-one/traffic-policies/resolver-policies/#internal-dns).

## 4. Route traffic from subnet to WARP Connector

The WARP Connector host will automatically forward DNS and network traffic to Cloudflare. Depending on where you installed the WARP Connector, you may need to configure other devices on the subnet to route outbound requests through WARP Connector.

```mermaid
    flowchart LR
      subgraph subnet1[Subnet 10.0.0.0/24]
      router1["WARP Connector #1
        10.0.0.1"]
			device["Device
        10.0.0.2"]
      end

      device --Requests to
			192.168.1.0/24 --> router1 --> C((Cloudflare))

```

### Option 1: Default gateway

<Render file="tunnel/warp-connector-default-gateway" product="cloudflare-one" />

### Option 2: Alternate gateway

<Render
	file="tunnel/warp-connector-alternate-gateway"
	product="cloudflare-one"
/>

#### Add IP route to router

For example, for devices on subnet `10.0.0.0/24` to reach applications behind subnet `192.168.1.0/24`, add a rule on the router that routes `192.168.1.0/24` to the WARP Connector host machine (`10.0.0.100`).

<Render
	file="tunnel/warp-connector-alternate-gateway-flow"
	product="cloudflare-one"
/>

#### Configure DNS resolver on router

<Render
	file="tunnel/warp-connector-alternate-gateway-dns"
	product="cloudflare-one"
/>

### Option 3: Intermediate gateway

<Render
	file="tunnel/warp-connector-intermediate-gateway"
	product="cloudflare-one"
/>

#### Add IP route to devices

<Render
	file="tunnel/warp-connector-route-all-traffic"
	product="cloudflare-one"
/>

Alternatively, you can configure only certain routes to egress through WARP Connector. For example, you may only want to filter traffic destined to internal applications and devices, but allow public Internet traffic to bypass Cloudflare.

<Tabs> <TabItem label="Linux">

```sh
sudo ip route add <DESTINATION-IP> via <WARP-CONNECTOR-IP> dev eth0
```

</TabItem> <TabItem label="macOS">

```sh
sudo route -n add -net <DESTINATION-IP> <WARP-CONNECTOR-IP>
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Windows">

```bash
route /p add <DESTINATION-IP> mask 255.255.255.255 <WARP-CONNECTOR-IP>
```

</TabItem> </Tabs>

<Render file="tunnel/warp-connector-verify-routes" product="cloudflare-one" />

#### Configure DNS resolver on devices

<Render
	file="tunnel/warp-connector-intermediate-gateway-dns"
	product="cloudflare-one"
/>

## 5. Install another WARP Connector

Repeat steps 1, 3, and 4 above to install an additional WARP Connector on subnet `192.168.1.0/24`. The device profile created in Step 2 will apply to all WARP Connectors.

```mermaid
    flowchart LR
      subgraph subnet1[Subnet 10.0.0.0/24]
      router1["WARP Connector #1
        10.0.0.1"]
      end
      subgraph subnet2[Subnet 192.168.1.0/24]
        router2["WARP Connector #2
        192.168.1.97"]
      end
      router1<-->C((Cloudflare))<-->router2
```

## 6. Test the WARP Connector

You can now test the connection between the two subnets. To test connections to the WARP Connector host, on the `10.0.0.2` device run `ping 192.168.1.97`. To connect to a device behind WARP connector, run `ping 192.168.1.100`.

```mermaid
    flowchart LR
      subgraph subnet1[Subnet 10.0.0.0/24]
        device1["Device
        10.0.0.2"]--"ping
        192.168.1.100"-->router1["WARP Connector #1
        10.0.0.1"]
      end
      subgraph subnet2[Subnet 192.168.1.0/24]
        router2["WARP Connector #2
        192.168.1.97"]-->device2["Device
        192.168.1.100"]
      end
      router1-->C((Cloudflare))-->router2
```

:::note
If you are testing with curl using private hostnames, add the `--ipv4` flag to your curl commands.
:::

Your [Gateway activity logs](/cloudflare-one/insights/logs/gateway-logs/) will show traffic associated with the email `warp_connector@<your-team-name>.cloudflareaccess.com`.

[^1]:
    <Render
    	file="tunnel/warp-connector-linux-packages"
    	product="cloudflare-one"
    />
