src/content/docs/learning-paths/secure-internet-traffic/build-network-policies/recommended-network-policies.mdx, before:

---
title: Recommended network policies
pcx_content_type: learning-unit
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

import {
	GlossaryTooltip,
	Render,
	Tabs,
	TabItem,
	APIRequest,
} from "~/components";

We recommend you add the following network policies to build an Internet and SaaS app security strategy for your organization.

For more information on building network policies, refer to [Network policies](/cloudflare-one/traffic-policies/network-policies/).

## Quarantined-Users-NET-Restricted-Access

<Render file="zero-trust/blocklist-restricted-users" product="learning-paths" />

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI">

<TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector         | Operator    | Value                               | Logic | Action |
| ---------------- | ----------- | ----------------------------------- | ----- | ------ |
| Destination IP   | not in list | _Quarantined-Users-IPAllowlist_     | Or    | Block  |
| SNI              | not in list | _Quarantined-Users-HostAllowlist_   | Or    |        |
| SNI Domain       | not in list | _Quarantined-Users-DomainAllowlist_ | And   |        |
| User Group Names | in          | _Quarantined Users_                 |       |        |

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "Quarantined-Users-NET-Restricted-Access",
		description:
			"Restrict access for users included in an IdP user group for risky users",
		precedence: 0,
		enabled: true,
		action: "block",
		filters: ["l4"],
		traffic:
			"not(net.dst.ip in $<IP_ALLOWLIST_UUID>) or not(net.sni.host in $<HOST_ALLOWLIST_UUID>) or not(any(net.sni.domains[] in $<DOMAIN_ALLOWLIST_UUID>))",
		identity: 'any(identity.groups.name[] in {"Quarantined Users"})',
	}}
/>

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Terraform">

```tf
resource "cloudflare_zero_trust_gateway_policy" "quarantined_users_net_restricted_access" {
  account_id  = var.cloudflare_account_id
  name        = "Quarantined-Users-NET-Restricted-Access"
  description = "Restrict access for users included in an IdP user group for risky users"
  precedence  = 0
  enabled     = true
  action      = "block"
  filters     = ["l4"]
  traffic     = "not(net.dst.ip in ${"$"}${cloudflare_zero_trust_list.ip_allowlist.id}) or not(net.sni.host in ${"$"}${cloudflare_zero_trust_list.host_allowlist.id}) or not(any(net.sni.domains[*] in ${"$"}${cloudflare_zero_trust_list.domain_allowlist.id}))"
  identity    = "any(identity.groups.name[*] in {\"Quarantined Users\"})"
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Posture-Fail-NET-Restricted-Access

Restrict access for devices where baseline posture checks have not passed. If posture checks are integrated with service providers such as Crowdstrike or Intune via the API, this policy dynamically blocks access for devices that do not meet predetermined security requirements.

<Render file="zero-trust/blocklist-restricted-users" product="learning-paths" />

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI">

<TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector                     | Operator    | Value                               | Logic | Action |
| ---------------------------- | ----------- | ----------------------------------- | ----- | ------ |
| Destination IP               | not in list | _Posture-Fail-IPAllowlist_          | Or    | Block  |
| SNI                          | not in list | _Posture-Fail-HostAllowlist_        | Or    |        |
| SNI Domain                   | not in list | _Posture-Fail-DomainAllowlist_      | And   |        |
| Passed Device Posture Checks | not in      | _Windows 10 or higher (OS version)_ |       |        |

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "Posture-Fail-NET-Restricted-Access",
		description:
			"Restrict access for devices where baseline posture checks have not passed",
		precedence: 10,
		enabled: true,
		action: "block",
		filters: ["l4"],
		traffic:
			"not(net.dst.ip in $<IP_ALLOWLIST_UUID>) or not(net.sni.host in $<HOST_ALLOWLIST_UUID>) or not(any(net.sni.domains[] in $<DOMAIN_ALLOWLIST_UUID>))",
		device_posture:
			'not(any(device_posture.checks.passed[] in {"<DEVICE_POSTURE_CHECK_UUID>"}))',
	}}
/>

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Terraform">

```tf
resource "cloudflare_zero_trust_gateway_policy" "posture_fail_net_restricted_access" {
  account_id  = var.cloudflare_account_id
  name        = "Posture-Fail-NET-Restricted-Access"
  description = "Restrict access for devices where baseline posture checks have not passed"
  precedence  = 10
  enabled     = true
  action      = "block"
  filters     = ["l4"]
  traffic     = "not(net.dst.ip in ${"$"}${cloudflare_zero_trust_list.ip_allowlist.id}) or not(net.sni.host in ${"$"}${cloudflare_zero_trust_list.host_allowlist.id}) or not(any(net.sni.domains[*] in ${"$"}${cloudflare_zero_trust_list.domain_allowlist.id}))"
  device_posture = "not(any(device_posture.checks.passed[*] in {\"${cloudflare_device_posture_rule.baseline_check.id}\"}))"
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

You can add a number of WARP client device posture checks as needed, such as [Disk encryption](/cloudflare-one/reusable-components/posture-checks/warp-client-checks/disk-encryption/) and [Domain joined](/cloudflare-one/reusable-components/posture-checks/warp-client-checks/domain-joined/). For more information on device posture checks, refer to [Enforce device posture](/cloudflare-one/reusable-components/posture-checks/).

## FinanceUsers-NET-HTTPS-FinanceServers (example)

Allow HTTPS access for user groups. For example, the following policy gives finance users access to any known financial applications:

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI">

<TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector         | Operator | Value             | Logic | Action |
| ---------------- | -------- | ----------------- | ----- | ------ |
| Destination IP   | in list  | _Finance Servers_ | And   | Allow  |
| User Group Names | in       | _Finance Users_   |       |        |

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "FinanceUsers-NET-HTTPS-FinanceServers",
		description: "Allow HTTPS access for user groups",
		precedence: 20,
		enabled: true,
		action: "allow",
		filters: ["l4"],
		traffic: "net.dst.ip in $<FINANCE_SERVERS_LIST_UUID>",
		identity: 'any(identity.groups.name[*] in {"Finance Users"})',
	}}
/>

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Terraform">

```tf
resource "cloudflare_zero_trust_gateway_policy" "finance_users_net_https_finance_servers" {
  account_id  = var.cloudflare_account_id
  name        = "FinanceUsers-NET-HTTPS-FinanceServers"
  description = "Allow HTTPS access for user groups"
  precedence  = 20
  enabled     = true
  action      = "allow"
  filters     = ["l4"]
  traffic     = "net.dst.ip in ${"$"}${cloudflare_zero_trust_list.finance_servers_list.id}"
  identity    = "any(identity.groups.name[*] in {\"Finance Users\"})"
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## All-NET-Internet-Blocklist

Block traffic to destination IPs, <GlossaryTooltip term="Server Name Indication (SNI)">SNIs</GlossaryTooltip>, and SNI domains that are malicious or pose a threat to your organization.

<Render
	file="zero-trust/threat-intelligence-automation"
	product="learning-paths"
/>

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI">

<TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector       | Operator | Value              | Logic | Action |
| -------------- | -------- | ------------------ | ----- | ------ |
| Destination IP | in list  | _IP Blocklist_     | Or    | Block  |
| SNI            | in list  | _Host Blocklist_   | Or    |        |
| SNI Domain     | in list  | _Domain Blocklist_ |       |        |

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "All-NET-Internet-Blocklist",
		description:
			"Block traffic to malicious or risky destination IPs, SNIs, and SNI domains",
		precedence: 30,
		enabled: true,
		action: "block",
		filters: ["l4"],
		traffic:
			"net.dst.ip in $<IP_BLOCKLIST_UUID> and net.sni.host in $<HOST_BLOCKLIST_UUID> and any(net.sni.domains[*] in $<DOMAIN_BLOCKLIST_UUID>)",
	}}
/>

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Terraform">

```tf
resource "cloudflare_zero_trust_gateway_policy" "finance_users_net_https_finance_servers" {
  account_id  = var.cloudflare_account_id
  name        = "All-NET-Internet-Blocklist"
  description = "Block traffic to malicious or risky destination IPs, SNIs, and SNI domains"
  precedence  = 30
  enabled     = true
  action      = "block"
  filters     = ["l4"]
  traffic     = "net.dst.ip in ${"$"}${cloudflare_zero_trust_list.ip_blocklist.id} and net.sni.host in ${"$"}${cloudflare_zero_trust_list.host_blocklist.id} and any(net.sni.domains[*] in ${"$"}${cloudflare_zero_trust_list.domain_blocklist.id})"
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::note
The **Detected Protocol** selector is only available for Enterprise users. For more information, refer to [Protocol detection](/cloudflare-one/traffic-policies/network-policies/protocol-detection/).
:::

## All-NET-SSH-Internet-Allowlist

Allow SSH traffic to specific endpoints on the Internet for specific users. You can create a similar policy for other non-web endpoints that required access.

Optionally, you can include a selector to filter by source IP or IdP group.

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI">

<TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector          | Operator | Value               | Logic | Action |
| ----------------- | -------- | ------------------- | ----- | ------ |
| Destination IP    | in list  | _SSHAllowList_      | Or    | Allow  |
| SNI               | in list  | _SSHAllowlistFQDN_  | And   |        |
| Detected Protocol | is       | _SSH_               | And   |        |
| User Group Names  | in       | _SSH-Allowed-Users_ |       |        |

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "All-NET-SSH-Internet-Allowlist",
		description:
			"Allow SSH traffic to specific endpoints on the Internet for specific users",
		precedence: 40,
		enabled: true,
		action: "allow",
		filters: ["l4"],
		traffic:
			'net.dst.ip in $<SSH_IP_ALLOWLIST_UUID> and net.sni.host in $<SSH_FQDN_ALLOWLIST_UUID> and net.detected_protocol == "ssh"',
		identity: 'any(identity.groups.name[*] in {"SSH-Allowed-Users"})',
	}}
/>

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Terraform">

```tf
resource "cloudflare_zero_trust_gateway_policy" "all_net_ssh_internet_allowlist" {
  account_id  = var.cloudflare_account_id
  name        = "All-NET-SSH-Internet-Allowlist"
  description = "Allow SSH traffic to specific endpoints on the Internet for specific users"
  precedence  = 40
  enabled     = true
  action      = "allow"
  filters     = ["l4"]
  traffic     = "net.dst.ip in ${"$"}${cloudflare_zero_trust_list.ssh_ip_allowlist.id} and net.sni.host in ${"$"}${cloudflare_zero_trust_list.ssh_fqdn_allowlist.id} and net.detected_protocol == \"ssh\""
  identity    = "any(identity.groups.name[*] in {\"SSH-Allowed-Users\"})"
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## All-NET-NO-HTTP-HTTPS-Internet-Deny

Block all non-web traffic towards the Internet. By using the **Detected Protocol** selector, you will ensure alternative ports for HTTP and HTTPS are allowed.

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI">

<TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector          | Operator    | Value             | Logic | Action |
| ----------------- | ----------- | ----------------- | ----- | ------ |
| Destination IP    | not in list | _InternalNetwork_ | And   | Block  |
| Detected Protocol | not in      | _HTTP_, _HTTP2_   |       |        |

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "All-NET-NO-HTTP-HTTPS-Internet-Deny",
		description: "Block all non-web traffic towards the Internet",
		precedence: 50,
		enabled: true,
		action: "block",
		filters: ["l4"],
		traffic:
			'not(net.dst.ip in $<INTERNAL_NETWORK_IP_LIST_UUID>) and not(net.detected_protocol in {"http" "http2"})',
	}}
/>

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Terraform">

```tf
resource "cloudflare_zero_trust_gateway_policy" "all_net_no_http_https_internet_deny" {
  account_id  = var.cloudflare_account_id
  name        = "All-NET-NO-HTTP-HTTPS-Internet-Deny"
  description = "Block all non-web traffic towards the Internet"
  precedence  = 50
  enabled     = true
  action      = "block"
  filters     = ["l4"]
  traffic     = "not(net.dst.ip in ${"$"}${cloudflare_zero_trust_list.internal_network_ip_list.id}) and not(net.detected_protocol in {\"http\" \"http2\"})"
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## All-NET-InternalNetwork-ImplicitDeny

Implicitly deny all of your internal IP ranges included in a list. We recommend you place this policy at the [bottom of your policy list](/learning-paths/secure-internet-traffic/understand-policies/order-of-enforcement/#order-of-precedence) to ensure you explicitly approve traffic defined in the above policies.

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI">

<TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector       | Operator | Value                  | Action |
| -------------- | -------- | ---------------------- | ------ |
| Destination IP | in list  | _Internal Network IPs_ | Block  |

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "All-NET-InternalNetwork-ImplicitDeny",
		description:
			"Implicitly deny all of your internal IP ranges included in a list",
		precedence: 60,
		enabled: true,
		action: "block",
		filters: ["l4"],
		traffic: "net.dst.ip in $<INTERNAL_NETWORK_IP_LIST_UUID>",
	}}
/>

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Terraform">

```tf
resource "cloudflare_zero_trust_gateway_policy" "all_net_internalnetwork_implicitdeny" {
  account_id  = var.cloudflare_account_id
  name        = "All-NET-InternalNetwork-ImplicitDeny"
  description = "Implicitly deny all of your internal IP ranges included in a list"
  precedence  = 60
  enabled     = true
  action      = "block"
  filters     = ["l4"]
  traffic     = "net.dst.ip in ${"$"}${cloudflare_zero_trust_list.internal_network_ip_list.id}"
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## All-NET-ApplicationAccess-Allow

Only allow network traffic from known and approved devices.

<Render
	file="gateway/policies/dash-plus-api/network/enforce-device-posture"
	product="cloudflare-one"
/>

Commit message:

[Gateway] Link between common policies and learning path (#26875)
Co-authored-by: Max Phillips <mphillips@cloudflare.com>

src/content/docs/learning-paths/secure-internet-traffic/build-network-policies/recommended-network-policies.mdx, after:

---
title: Recommended network policies
pcx_content_type: learning-unit
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

import {
	GlossaryTooltip,
	Render,
	Tabs,
	TabItem,
	APIRequest,
} from "~/components";

We recommend you add the following network policies to build an Internet and SaaS app security strategy for your organization.

For additional commonly used network policy examples, refer to [Common network policies](/cloudflare-one/traffic-policies/network-policies/common-policies/). For more information on building network policies, refer to [Network policies](/cloudflare-one/traffic-policies/network-policies/).

## Quarantined-Users-NET-Restricted-Access

<Render file="zero-trust/blocklist-restricted-users" product="learning-paths" />

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI">

<TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector         | Operator    | Value                               | Logic | Action |
| ---------------- | ----------- | ----------------------------------- | ----- | ------ |
| Destination IP   | not in list | _Quarantined-Users-IPAllowlist_     | Or    | Block  |
| SNI              | not in list | _Quarantined-Users-HostAllowlist_   | Or    |        |
| SNI Domain       | not in list | _Quarantined-Users-DomainAllowlist_ | And   |        |
| User Group Names | in          | _Quarantined Users_                 |       |        |

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "Quarantined-Users-NET-Restricted-Access",
		description:
			"Restrict access for users included in an IdP user group for risky users",
		precedence: 0,
		enabled: true,
		action: "block",
		filters: ["l4"],
		traffic:
			"not(net.dst.ip in $<IP_ALLOWLIST_UUID>) or not(net.sni.host in $<HOST_ALLOWLIST_UUID>) or not(any(net.sni.domains[] in $<DOMAIN_ALLOWLIST_UUID>))",
		identity: 'any(identity.groups.name[] in {"Quarantined Users"})',
	}}
/>

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Terraform">

```tf
resource "cloudflare_zero_trust_gateway_policy" "quarantined_users_net_restricted_access" {
  account_id  = var.cloudflare_account_id
  name        = "Quarantined-Users-NET-Restricted-Access"
  description = "Restrict access for users included in an IdP user group for risky users"
  precedence  = 0
  enabled     = true
  action      = "block"
  filters     = ["l4"]
  traffic     = "not(net.dst.ip in ${"$"}${cloudflare_zero_trust_list.ip_allowlist.id}) or not(net.sni.host in ${"$"}${cloudflare_zero_trust_list.host_allowlist.id}) or not(any(net.sni.domains[*] in ${"$"}${cloudflare_zero_trust_list.domain_allowlist.id}))"
  identity    = "any(identity.groups.name[*] in {\"Quarantined Users\"})"
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Posture-Fail-NET-Restricted-Access

Restrict access for devices where baseline posture checks have not passed. If posture checks are integrated with service providers such as Crowdstrike or Intune via the API, this policy dynamically blocks access for devices that do not meet predetermined security requirements.

<Render file="zero-trust/blocklist-restricted-users" product="learning-paths" />

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI">

<TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector                     | Operator    | Value                               | Logic | Action |
| ---------------------------- | ----------- | ----------------------------------- | ----- | ------ |
| Destination IP               | not in list | _Posture-Fail-IPAllowlist_          | Or    | Block  |
| SNI                          | not in list | _Posture-Fail-HostAllowlist_        | Or    |        |
| SNI Domain                   | not in list | _Posture-Fail-DomainAllowlist_      | And   |        |
| Passed Device Posture Checks | not in      | _Windows 10 or higher (OS version)_ |       |        |

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "Posture-Fail-NET-Restricted-Access",
		description:
			"Restrict access for devices where baseline posture checks have not passed",
		precedence: 10,
		enabled: true,
		action: "block",
		filters: ["l4"],
		traffic:
			"not(net.dst.ip in $<IP_ALLOWLIST_UUID>) or not(net.sni.host in $<HOST_ALLOWLIST_UUID>) or not(any(net.sni.domains[] in $<DOMAIN_ALLOWLIST_UUID>))",
		device_posture:
			'not(any(device_posture.checks.passed[] in {"<DEVICE_POSTURE_CHECK_UUID>"}))',
	}}
/>

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Terraform">

```tf
resource "cloudflare_zero_trust_gateway_policy" "posture_fail_net_restricted_access" {
  account_id  = var.cloudflare_account_id
  name        = "Posture-Fail-NET-Restricted-Access"
  description = "Restrict access for devices where baseline posture checks have not passed"
  precedence  = 10
  enabled     = true
  action      = "block"
  filters     = ["l4"]
  traffic     = "not(net.dst.ip in ${"$"}${cloudflare_zero_trust_list.ip_allowlist.id}) or not(net.sni.host in ${"$"}${cloudflare_zero_trust_list.host_allowlist.id}) or not(any(net.sni.domains[*] in ${"$"}${cloudflare_zero_trust_list.domain_allowlist.id}))"
  device_posture = "not(any(device_posture.checks.passed[*] in {\"${cloudflare_device_posture_rule.baseline_check.id}\"}))"
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

You can add a number of WARP client device posture checks as needed, such as [Disk encryption](/cloudflare-one/reusable-components/posture-checks/warp-client-checks/disk-encryption/) and [Domain joined](/cloudflare-one/reusable-components/posture-checks/warp-client-checks/domain-joined/). For more information on device posture checks, refer to [Enforce device posture](/cloudflare-one/reusable-components/posture-checks/).

## FinanceUsers-NET-HTTPS-FinanceServers (example)

Allow HTTPS access for user groups. For example, the following policy gives finance users access to any known financial applications:

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI">

<TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector         | Operator | Value             | Logic | Action |
| ---------------- | -------- | ----------------- | ----- | ------ |
| Destination IP   | in list  | _Finance Servers_ | And   | Allow  |
| User Group Names | in       | _Finance Users_   |       |        |

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "FinanceUsers-NET-HTTPS-FinanceServers",
		description: "Allow HTTPS access for user groups",
		precedence: 20,
		enabled: true,
		action: "allow",
		filters: ["l4"],
		traffic: "net.dst.ip in $<FINANCE_SERVERS_LIST_UUID>",
		identity: 'any(identity.groups.name[*] in {"Finance Users"})',
	}}
/>

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Terraform">

```tf
resource "cloudflare_zero_trust_gateway_policy" "finance_users_net_https_finance_servers" {
  account_id  = var.cloudflare_account_id
  name        = "FinanceUsers-NET-HTTPS-FinanceServers"
  description = "Allow HTTPS access for user groups"
  precedence  = 20
  enabled     = true
  action      = "allow"
  filters     = ["l4"]
  traffic     = "net.dst.ip in ${"$"}${cloudflare_zero_trust_list.finance_servers_list.id}"
  identity    = "any(identity.groups.name[*] in {\"Finance Users\"})"
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## All-NET-Internet-Blocklist

Block traffic to destination IPs, <GlossaryTooltip term="Server Name Indication (SNI)">SNIs</GlossaryTooltip>, and SNI domains that are malicious or pose a threat to your organization.

<Render
	file="zero-trust/threat-intelligence-automation"
	product="learning-paths"
/>

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI">

<TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector       | Operator | Value              | Logic | Action |
| -------------- | -------- | ------------------ | ----- | ------ |
| Destination IP | in list  | _IP Blocklist_     | Or    | Block  |
| SNI            | in list  | _Host Blocklist_   | Or    |        |
| SNI Domain     | in list  | _Domain Blocklist_ |       |        |

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "All-NET-Internet-Blocklist",
		description:
			"Block traffic to malicious or risky destination IPs, SNIs, and SNI domains",
		precedence: 30,
		enabled: true,
		action: "block",
		filters: ["l4"],
		traffic:
			"net.dst.ip in $<IP_BLOCKLIST_UUID> and net.sni.host in $<HOST_BLOCKLIST_UUID> and any(net.sni.domains[*] in $<DOMAIN_BLOCKLIST_UUID>)",
	}}
/>

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Terraform">

```tf
resource "cloudflare_zero_trust_gateway_policy" "finance_users_net_https_finance_servers" {
  account_id  = var.cloudflare_account_id
  name        = "All-NET-Internet-Blocklist"
  description = "Block traffic to malicious or risky destination IPs, SNIs, and SNI domains"
  precedence  = 30
  enabled     = true
  action      = "block"
  filters     = ["l4"]
  traffic     = "net.dst.ip in ${"$"}${cloudflare_zero_trust_list.ip_blocklist.id} and net.sni.host in ${"$"}${cloudflare_zero_trust_list.host_blocklist.id} and any(net.sni.domains[*] in ${"$"}${cloudflare_zero_trust_list.domain_blocklist.id})"
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::note
The **Detected Protocol** selector is only available for Enterprise users. For more information, refer to [Protocol detection](/cloudflare-one/traffic-policies/network-policies/protocol-detection/).
:::

## All-NET-SSH-Internet-Allowlist

Allow SSH traffic to specific endpoints on the Internet for specific users. You can create a similar policy for other non-web endpoints that required access.

Optionally, you can include a selector to filter by source IP or IdP group.

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI">

<TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector          | Operator | Value               | Logic | Action |
| ----------------- | -------- | ------------------- | ----- | ------ |
| Destination IP    | in list  | _SSHAllowList_      | Or    | Allow  |
| SNI               | in list  | _SSHAllowlistFQDN_  | And   |        |
| Detected Protocol | is       | _SSH_               | And   |        |
| User Group Names  | in       | _SSH-Allowed-Users_ |       |        |

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "All-NET-SSH-Internet-Allowlist",
		description:
			"Allow SSH traffic to specific endpoints on the Internet for specific users",
		precedence: 40,
		enabled: true,
		action: "allow",
		filters: ["l4"],
		traffic:
			'net.dst.ip in $<SSH_IP_ALLOWLIST_UUID> and net.sni.host in $<SSH_FQDN_ALLOWLIST_UUID> and net.detected_protocol == "ssh"',
		identity: 'any(identity.groups.name[*] in {"SSH-Allowed-Users"})',
	}}
/>

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Terraform">

```tf
resource "cloudflare_zero_trust_gateway_policy" "all_net_ssh_internet_allowlist" {
  account_id  = var.cloudflare_account_id
  name        = "All-NET-SSH-Internet-Allowlist"
  description = "Allow SSH traffic to specific endpoints on the Internet for specific users"
  precedence  = 40
  enabled     = true
  action      = "allow"
  filters     = ["l4"]
  traffic     = "net.dst.ip in ${"$"}${cloudflare_zero_trust_list.ssh_ip_allowlist.id} and net.sni.host in ${"$"}${cloudflare_zero_trust_list.ssh_fqdn_allowlist.id} and net.detected_protocol == \"ssh\""
  identity    = "any(identity.groups.name[*] in {\"SSH-Allowed-Users\"})"
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## All-NET-NO-HTTP-HTTPS-Internet-Deny

Block all non-web traffic towards the Internet. By using the **Detected Protocol** selector, you will ensure alternative ports for HTTP and HTTPS are allowed.

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI">

<TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector          | Operator    | Value             | Logic | Action |
| ----------------- | ----------- | ----------------- | ----- | ------ |
| Destination IP    | not in list | _InternalNetwork_ | And   | Block  |
| Detected Protocol | not in      | _HTTP_, _HTTP2_   |       |        |

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "All-NET-NO-HTTP-HTTPS-Internet-Deny",
		description: "Block all non-web traffic towards the Internet",
		precedence: 50,
		enabled: true,
		action: "block",
		filters: ["l4"],
		traffic:
			'not(net.dst.ip in $<INTERNAL_NETWORK_IP_LIST_UUID>) and not(net.detected_protocol in {"http" "http2"})',
	}}
/>

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Terraform">

```tf
resource "cloudflare_zero_trust_gateway_policy" "all_net_no_http_https_internet_deny" {
  account_id  = var.cloudflare_account_id
  name        = "All-NET-NO-HTTP-HTTPS-Internet-Deny"
  description = "Block all non-web traffic towards the Internet"
  precedence  = 50
  enabled     = true
  action      = "block"
  filters     = ["l4"]
  traffic     = "not(net.dst.ip in ${"$"}${cloudflare_zero_trust_list.internal_network_ip_list.id}) and not(net.detected_protocol in {\"http\" \"http2\"})"
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## All-NET-InternalNetwork-ImplicitDeny

Implicitly deny all of your internal IP ranges included in a list. We recommend you place this policy at the [bottom of your policy list](/learning-paths/secure-internet-traffic/understand-policies/order-of-enforcement/#order-of-precedence) to ensure you explicitly approve traffic defined in the above policies.

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI">

<TabItem label="Dashboard">

| Selector       | Operator | Value                  | Action |
| -------------- | -------- | ---------------------- | ------ |
| Destination IP | in list  | _Internal Network IPs_ | Block  |

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="API">

<APIRequest
	path="/accounts/{account_id}/gateway/rules"
	method="POST"
	json={{
		name: "All-NET-InternalNetwork-ImplicitDeny",
		description:
			"Implicitly deny all of your internal IP ranges included in a list",
		precedence: 60,
		enabled: true,
		action: "block",
		filters: ["l4"],
		traffic: "net.dst.ip in $<INTERNAL_NETWORK_IP_LIST_UUID>",
	}}
/>

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Terraform">

```tf
resource "cloudflare_zero_trust_gateway_policy" "all_net_internalnetwork_implicitdeny" {
  account_id  = var.cloudflare_account_id
  name        = "All-NET-InternalNetwork-ImplicitDeny"
  description = "Implicitly deny all of your internal IP ranges included in a list"
  precedence  = 60
  enabled     = true
  action      = "block"
  filters     = ["l4"]
  traffic     = "net.dst.ip in ${"$"}${cloudflare_zero_trust_list.internal_network_ip_list.id}"
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## All-NET-ApplicationAccess-Allow

Only allow network traffic from known and approved devices.

<Render
	file="gateway/policies/dash-plus-api/network/enforce-device-posture"
	product="cloudflare-one"
/>
