src/content/docs/containers/faq.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: navigation
title: Frequently Asked Questions
sidebar:
  order: 10
---

import { WranglerConfig } from "~/components";

Frequently Asked Questions:

## How do Container logs work?

To get logs in the Dashboard, including live tailing of logs, toggle `observability` to true
in your Worker's wrangler config:

<WranglerConfig>

```json
{
	"observability": {
		"enabled": true
	}
}
```

</WranglerConfig>

Logs are subject to the same [limits as Worker logs](/workers/observability/logs/workers-logs/#limits), which means that they are
retained for 3 days on Free plans and 7 days on Paid plans.

See [Workers Logs Pricing](/workers/observability/logs/workers-logs/#pricing) for details on cost.

If you are an Enterprise user, you are able to export container logs via [Logpush](/logs/logpush/)
to your preferred destination.

## How are container instance locations selected?

When initially deploying a Container, Cloudflare will select various locations across our
network to deploy instances to. These locations will span multiple regions.

When a Container instance is requested with `this.ctx.container.start`, the nearest free
container instance will be selected from the pre-initialized locations. This will
likely be in the same region as the external request, but may not be. Once the container
instance is running, any future requests will be routed to the initial location.

An Example:

- A user deploys a Container. Cloudflare automatically readies instances across its Network.
- A request is made from a client in Bariloche, Argentia. It reaches the Worker in
  Cloudflare's location in Neuquen, Argentina.
- This Worker request calls `MY_CONTAINER.get("session-1337")` which brings up a Durable
  Object, which then calls `this.ctx.container.start`.
- This requests the nearest free Container instance.
- Cloudflare recognizes that an instance is free in Buenos Aires, Argentina, and
  starts it there.
- A different user needs to route to the same container. This user's request reaches
  the Worker running in Cloudflare's location in San Diego.
- The Worker again calls `MY_CONTAINER.get("session-1337")`.
- If the initial container instance is still running, the request is routed to the location
  in Buenos Aires. If the initial container has gone to sleep, Cloudflare will once
  again try to find the nearest "free" instance of the Container, likely
  one in North America, and start an instance there.

## How do container updates and rollouts work?

See [rollout documentation](/containers/platform-details/rollouts/) for details.

## How does scaling work?

See [scaling & routing documentation](/containers/platform-details/scaling-and-routing/) for details.

## What are cold starts? How fast are they?

A cold start is when a container instance is started from a completely stopped state.

If you call `env.MY_CONTAINER.get(id)` with a completely novel ID and launch
this instance for the first time, it will result in a cold start.

This will start the container image from its entrypoint for the first time. Depending
on what this entrypoint does, it will take a variable amount of time to start.

Container cold starts can often be the 2-3 second range, but this is dependent
on image size and code execution time, among other factors.

## How do I use an existing container image?

See [image management documentation](/containers/platform-details/image-management/#using-existing-images) for details.

## Is disk persistent? What happens to my disk when my container sleeps?

All disk is ephemeral. When a Container instance goes to sleep, the next time
it is started, it will have a fresh disk as defined by its container image.

Persistent disk is something the Cloudflare team is exploring in the future, but
is not slated for the near term.

## What happens if I run out of memory?

If you run out of memory, your instance will throw an Out of Memory (OOM) error and
will be restarted.

Containers do not use swap memory.

## How long can instances run for? What happens when a host server is shutdown?

Cloudflare will not actively shut off a container instance after a specific amount of
time. If you do not set `sleepAfter` on your Container class, or stop the instance
manually, it will continue to run unless its host server is restarted. This
happens on an irregular cadence, but frequently enough where Cloudflare does not
guarantee that any instance will run for any set period of time.

When a container instance is going to be shut down, it is sent a `SIGTERM` signal,
and then a `SIGKILL` signal after 15 minutes. You should perform any necessary
cleanup to ensure a graceful shutdown in this time. The container instance
will be rebooted elsewhere shortly after this.

## How can I pass secrets to my container?

You can use [Worker Secrets](/workers/configuration/secrets/) or the [Secrets Store](/secrets-store/integrations/workers/)
to define secrets for your Workers.

Then you can pass these secrets to your Container using the `envVars` property:

```javascript
class MyContainer extends Container {
	defaultPort = 5000;
	envVars = {
		MY_SECRET: this.env.MY_SECRET,
	};
}
```

Or when starting a Container instance on a Durable Object:

```javascript
this.ctx.container.start({
	env: {
		MY_SECRET: this.env.MY_SECRET,
	},
});
```

See [the Env Vars and Secrets Example](/containers/examples/env-vars-and-secrets/) for details.

## How do I allow or disallow egress from my container?

When booting a Container, you can specify `enableInternet`, which will toggle
internet access on or off.

To disable it, configure it on your Container class:

```javascript
class MyContainer extends Container {
	defaultPort = 7000;
	enableInternet = false;
}
```

or when starting a Container instance on a Durable Object:

```javascript
this.ctx.container.start({
	enableInternet: false,
});
```

Commit message:

Adds Docker in Docker to containers FAQ (#28100)
* Adds Docker in Docker to containers FAQ

* Fix DinD FAQ placeholders and clarity

Co-authored-by: elithrar <elithrar@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: opencode-agent[bot] <opencode-agent[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: elithrar <elithrar@users.noreply.github.com>

src/content/docs/containers/faq.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: navigation
title: Frequently Asked Questions
sidebar:
  order: 10
---

import { WranglerConfig } from "~/components";

Frequently Asked Questions:

## How do Container logs work?

To get logs in the Dashboard, including live tailing of logs, toggle `observability` to true
in your Worker's wrangler config:

<WranglerConfig>

```json
{
	"observability": {
		"enabled": true
	}
}
```

</WranglerConfig>

Logs are subject to the same [limits as Worker logs](/workers/observability/logs/workers-logs/#limits), which means that they are
retained for 3 days on Free plans and 7 days on Paid plans.

See [Workers Logs Pricing](/workers/observability/logs/workers-logs/#pricing) for details on cost.

If you are an Enterprise user, you are able to export container logs via [Logpush](/logs/logpush/)
to your preferred destination.

## How are container instance locations selected?

When initially deploying a Container, Cloudflare will select various locations across our
network to deploy instances to. These locations will span multiple regions.

When a Container instance is requested with `this.ctx.container.start`, the nearest free
container instance will be selected from the pre-initialized locations. This will
likely be in the same region as the external request, but may not be. Once the container
instance is running, any future requests will be routed to the initial location.

An Example:

- A user deploys a Container. Cloudflare automatically readies instances across its Network.
- A request is made from a client in Bariloche, Argentia. It reaches the Worker in
  Cloudflare's location in Neuquen, Argentina.
- This Worker request calls `MY_CONTAINER.get("session-1337")` which brings up a Durable
  Object, which then calls `this.ctx.container.start`.
- This requests the nearest free Container instance.
- Cloudflare recognizes that an instance is free in Buenos Aires, Argentina, and
  starts it there.
- A different user needs to route to the same container. This user's request reaches
  the Worker running in Cloudflare's location in San Diego.
- The Worker again calls `MY_CONTAINER.get("session-1337")`.
- If the initial container instance is still running, the request is routed to the location
  in Buenos Aires. If the initial container has gone to sleep, Cloudflare will once
  again try to find the nearest "free" instance of the Container, likely
  one in North America, and start an instance there.

## How do container updates and rollouts work?

See [rollout documentation](/containers/platform-details/rollouts/) for details.

## How does scaling work?

See [scaling & routing documentation](/containers/platform-details/scaling-and-routing/) for details.

## What are cold starts? How fast are they?

A cold start is when a container instance is started from a completely stopped state.

If you call `env.MY_CONTAINER.get(id)` with a completely novel ID and launch
this instance for the first time, it will result in a cold start.

This will start the container image from its entrypoint for the first time. Depending
on what this entrypoint does, it will take a variable amount of time to start.

Container cold starts can often be the 2-3 second range, but this is dependent
on image size and code execution time, among other factors.

## How do I use an existing container image?

See [image management documentation](/containers/platform-details/image-management/#using-existing-images) for details.

## Is disk persistent? What happens to my disk when my container sleeps?

All disk is ephemeral. When a Container instance goes to sleep, the next time
it is started, it will have a fresh disk as defined by its container image.

Persistent disk is something the Cloudflare team is exploring in the future, but
is not slated for the near term.

## What happens if I run out of memory?

If you run out of memory, your instance will throw an Out of Memory (OOM) error and
will be restarted.

Containers do not use swap memory.

## How long can instances run for? What happens when a host server is shutdown?

Cloudflare will not actively shut off a container instance after a specific amount of
time. If you do not set `sleepAfter` on your Container class, or stop the instance
manually, it will continue to run unless its host server is restarted. This
happens on an irregular cadence, but frequently enough where Cloudflare does not
guarantee that any instance will run for any set period of time.

When a container instance is going to be shut down, it is sent a `SIGTERM` signal,
and then a `SIGKILL` signal after 15 minutes. You should perform any necessary
cleanup to ensure a graceful shutdown in this time. The container instance
will be rebooted elsewhere shortly after this.

## How can I pass secrets to my container?

You can use [Worker Secrets](/workers/configuration/secrets/) or the [Secrets Store](/secrets-store/integrations/workers/)
to define secrets for your Workers.

Then you can pass these secrets to your Container using the `envVars` property:

```javascript
class MyContainer extends Container {
	defaultPort = 5000;
	envVars = {
		MY_SECRET: this.env.MY_SECRET,
	};
}
```

Or when starting a Container instance on a Durable Object:

```javascript
this.ctx.container.start({
	env: {
		MY_SECRET: this.env.MY_SECRET,
	},
});
```

See [the Env Vars and Secrets Example](/containers/examples/env-vars-and-secrets/) for details.

## Can I run Docker inside a container (Docker-in-Docker)?

Yes. Use the `docker:dind-rootless` base image since Containers run without root privileges.

You must disable iptables when starting the Docker daemon because Containers do not support iptables manipulation:

```dockerfile title="Dockerfile"
FROM docker:dind-rootless

# Start dockerd with iptables disabled, then run your app
ENTRYPOINT ["sh", "-c", "dockerd-entrypoint.sh dockerd --iptables=false --ip6tables=false & exec /path/to/your-app"]
```

If your application needs to wait for dockerd to become ready before using Docker, use an entrypoint script instead of the inline command above:

```sh title="entrypoint.sh"
#!/bin/sh
set -eu

# Wait for dockerd to be ready
until docker version >/dev/null 2>&1; do
  sleep 0.2
done

exec /path/to/your-app
```

For a complete working example, see the [Docker-in-Docker Containers example](https://github.com/th0m/containers-dind).

## How do I allow or disallow egress from my container?

When booting a Container, you can specify `enableInternet`, which will toggle
internet access on or off.

To disable it, configure it on your Container class:

```javascript
class MyContainer extends Container {
	defaultPort = 7000;
	enableInternet = false;
}
```

or when starting a Container instance on a Durable Object:

```javascript
this.ctx.container.start({
	enableInternet: false,
});
```
