src/content/docs/cloudflare-for-platforms/workers-for-platforms/get-started/configuration.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Configure Workers for Platforms
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

import { Render, PackageManagers, WranglerConfig } from "~/components";

## Prerequisites:

### Enable Workers for Platforms

To enable Workers for Platforms, you will need to purchase the [Workers for Platforms Paid plan](/cloudflare-for-platforms/workers-for-platforms/platform/pricing/).

1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/workers-for-platforms), and select your account.
2. Complete the payment process for the Workers for Platforms Paid plan.

If you are an Enterprise customer, contact your Cloudflare account team to enable Workers for Platforms.

### Learn about Workers for Platforms

Refer to [How Workers for Platforms works](/cloudflare-for-platforms/workers-for-platforms/reference/how-workers-for-platforms-works/) to learn more about Workers for Platforms terminology and architecture.

---

This guide will instruct you on setting up Workers for Platforms. You will configure a [dispatch namespace](/cloudflare-for-platforms/workers-for-platforms/reference/how-workers-for-platforms-works/#dispatch-namespace), a [dynamic dispatch Worker](/cloudflare-for-platforms/workers-for-platforms/reference/how-workers-for-platforms-works/#dynamic-dispatch-worker) and a [user Worker](/cloudflare-for-platforms/workers-for-platforms/reference/how-workers-for-platforms-works/#user-workers) to test a request end to end.

### 1. Create a user Worker

First, create a [user Worker](/cloudflare-for-platforms/workers-for-platforms/reference/how-workers-for-platforms-works/#user-workers). User Workers are Workers that your end users (end developers) will be uploading.

User Workers can be created using C3. C3 (create-cloudflare-cli) is a command-line tool designed to help you setup and deploy Workers to Cloudflare as fast as possible.

Open a terminal window and run C3 to create your Worker project. This example creates a user Worker called `customer-worker-1`.

```sh
npm create cloudflare@latest customer-worker-1 -- --type=hello-world
```

When following the interactive prompts, answer the questions as below:

- Select `no` to using TypeScript.
- **Select `no` to deploying your application.**

### 2. Create a dispatch namespace

Create a [dispatch namespace](/cloudflare-for-platforms/workers-for-platforms/reference/how-workers-for-platforms-works/#dispatch-namespace). A dispatch namespace is made up of a collection of [user Workers](/cloudflare-for-platforms/workers-for-platforms/reference/how-workers-for-platforms-works/#user-workers).

This example creates a dispatch namespace called `testing`. To create a dispatch namespace, run:

```sh
npx wrangler dispatch-namespace create testing
```

### 3. Upload a user Worker to the dispatch namespace

Make sure you are in your user Worker's project directory:

```sh
cd customer-worker-1
```

To upload and deploy the user Worker to the dispatch namespace, running the following command:

```sh
npx wrangler deploy --dispatch-namespace testing
```

### 4. Create a dynamic dispatch Worker

A [dynamic dispatch Worker](/cloudflare-for-platforms/workers-for-platforms/reference/how-workers-for-platforms-works/#dynamic-dispatch-worker) is a specialized routing Worker that directs incoming requests to the appropriate user Workers in your dispatch namespace. Instead of using [Workers Routes](/workers/configuration/routing/routes/), dispatch Workers let you programmatically control request routing through code.

#### Why use a dynamic dispatch Worker?

* **Scale**: Perfect for routing thousands or millions of hostnames to different Workers, without needing to rely on [Workers Routes](/workers/configuration/routing/routes/)
* **Custom routing logic**: Write code to determine exactly how requests should be routed. For example:
   * Map hostnames directly to specific Workers
   * Route requests based on subdomains
   * Use request metadata or headers for routing decisions

* **Add platform functionality**: Build in additional features at the routing layer.
   * Run authentication checks before requests reach user Workers
   * Sanitize incoming requests
   * Attach useful context like user IDs or account information
   * Transform requests or responses as needed

**To create your dynamic dispatch Worker:**

Navigate up a level from your user Worker's project directory:

```sh
cd ..
```

Create your dynamic dispatch Worker. In this example, the dispatch Worker is called `my-dispatcher`.

<PackageManagers type="create" pkg="cloudflare@latest" args={"my-dispatcher"} />

<Render
	file="c3-post-run-steps"
	product="workers"
	params={{
		category: "hello-world",
		type: "Worker only",
		lang: "JavaScript",
	}}
/>

Change to your project's directory:

```sh
cd my-dispatcher
```

Open the Wrangler file in your project directory, and add the dispatch namespace binding:

<WranglerConfig>

```toml
[[dispatch_namespaces]]
binding = "DISPATCHER"
namespace = "testing"
```

</WranglerConfig>

Add the following to the index.js file:

```js
export default {
	async fetch(req, env) {
		const worker = env.DISPATCHER.get("customer-worker-1");
		return await worker.fetch(req);
	},
};
```

This example shows a simple dynamic dispatch Worker that routes all requests to a single user Worker. For more advanced routing patterns, you could route based on hostname, path, custom metadata, or other request properties.

Deploy your dynamic dispatch Worker:

```sh
npx wrangler deploy
```

### 5. Test a request

You will now send a request to the route your dynamic dispatch Worker is on. You should receive the response (`Hello world`) you created in your user Worker (`customer-worker-1`) that you call from your dynamic dispatch Worker (`my-dispatcher`).

Preview the response to your Workers for Platforms project at `https://my-dispatcher.<YOUR_WORKER_SUBDOMAIN>.workers.dev/`.

By completing this guide, you have successfully set up a dispatch namespace, dynamic dispatch Worker and user Worker to test a request end to end.

## Related resources

- [Workers for Platforms example project](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-for-platforms-example) - An end to end example project using Workers for Platforms

Commit message:

Implementing DashButton (#25034)
* Registrar - dash buttons

* Cloudflare for Platforms - dash button

* Added missing import

* Removed incorrect dash button reference

* Added missing dash buttons

* Styling fixes

src/content/docs/cloudflare-for-platforms/workers-for-platforms/get-started/configuration.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Configure Workers for Platforms
sidebar:
  order: 1
---

import { DashButton, Render, PackageManagers, WranglerConfig } from "~/components";

## Prerequisites:

### Enable Workers for Platforms

To enable Workers for Platforms, you will need to purchase the [Workers for Platforms Paid plan](/cloudflare-for-platforms/workers-for-platforms/platform/pricing/).

1. In the Cloudflare dashboard, go to the **Workers for Platforms** page and select your account.

		<DashButton url="/?to=/:account/workers-for-platforms" />

2. Complete the payment process for the Workers for Platforms Paid plan.

If you are an Enterprise customer, contact your Cloudflare account team to enable Workers for Platforms.

### Learn about Workers for Platforms

Refer to [How Workers for Platforms works](/cloudflare-for-platforms/workers-for-platforms/reference/how-workers-for-platforms-works/) to learn more about Workers for Platforms terminology and architecture.

---

This guide will instruct you on setting up Workers for Platforms. You will configure a [dispatch namespace](/cloudflare-for-platforms/workers-for-platforms/reference/how-workers-for-platforms-works/#dispatch-namespace), a [dynamic dispatch Worker](/cloudflare-for-platforms/workers-for-platforms/reference/how-workers-for-platforms-works/#dynamic-dispatch-worker) and a [user Worker](/cloudflare-for-platforms/workers-for-platforms/reference/how-workers-for-platforms-works/#user-workers) to test a request end to end.

### 1. Create a user Worker

First, create a [user Worker](/cloudflare-for-platforms/workers-for-platforms/reference/how-workers-for-platforms-works/#user-workers). User Workers are Workers that your end users (end developers) will be uploading.

User Workers can be created using C3. C3 (create-cloudflare-cli) is a command-line tool designed to help you setup and deploy Workers to Cloudflare as fast as possible.

Open a terminal window and run C3 to create your Worker project. This example creates a user Worker called `customer-worker-1`.

```sh
npm create cloudflare@latest customer-worker-1 -- --type=hello-world
```

When following the interactive prompts, answer the questions as below:

- Select `no` to using TypeScript.
- **Select `no` to deploying your application.**

### 2. Create a dispatch namespace

Create a [dispatch namespace](/cloudflare-for-platforms/workers-for-platforms/reference/how-workers-for-platforms-works/#dispatch-namespace). A dispatch namespace is made up of a collection of [user Workers](/cloudflare-for-platforms/workers-for-platforms/reference/how-workers-for-platforms-works/#user-workers).

This example creates a dispatch namespace called `testing`. To create a dispatch namespace, run:

```sh
npx wrangler dispatch-namespace create testing
```

### 3. Upload a user Worker to the dispatch namespace

Make sure you are in your user Worker's project directory:

```sh
cd customer-worker-1
```

To upload and deploy the user Worker to the dispatch namespace, running the following command:

```sh
npx wrangler deploy --dispatch-namespace testing
```

### 4. Create a dynamic dispatch Worker

A [dynamic dispatch Worker](/cloudflare-for-platforms/workers-for-platforms/reference/how-workers-for-platforms-works/#dynamic-dispatch-worker) is a specialized routing Worker that directs incoming requests to the appropriate user Workers in your dispatch namespace. Instead of using [Workers Routes](/workers/configuration/routing/routes/), dispatch Workers let you programmatically control request routing through code.

#### Why use a dynamic dispatch Worker?

* **Scale**: Perfect for routing thousands or millions of hostnames to different Workers, without needing to rely on [Workers Routes](/workers/configuration/routing/routes/)
* **Custom routing logic**: Write code to determine exactly how requests should be routed. For example:
   * Map hostnames directly to specific Workers
   * Route requests based on subdomains
   * Use request metadata or headers for routing decisions

* **Add platform functionality**: Build in additional features at the routing layer.
   * Run authentication checks before requests reach user Workers
   * Sanitize incoming requests
   * Attach useful context like user IDs or account information
   * Transform requests or responses as needed

**To create your dynamic dispatch Worker:**

Navigate up a level from your user Worker's project directory:

```sh
cd ..
```

Create your dynamic dispatch Worker. In this example, the dispatch Worker is called `my-dispatcher`.

<PackageManagers type="create" pkg="cloudflare@latest" args={"my-dispatcher"} />

<Render
	file="c3-post-run-steps"
	product="workers"
	params={{
		category: "hello-world",
		type: "Worker only",
		lang: "JavaScript",
	}}
/>

Change to your project's directory:

```sh
cd my-dispatcher
```

Open the Wrangler file in your project directory, and add the dispatch namespace binding:

<WranglerConfig>

```toml
[[dispatch_namespaces]]
binding = "DISPATCHER"
namespace = "testing"
```

</WranglerConfig>

Add the following to the index.js file:

```js
export default {
	async fetch(req, env) {
		const worker = env.DISPATCHER.get("customer-worker-1");
		return await worker.fetch(req);
	},
};
```

This example shows a simple dynamic dispatch Worker that routes all requests to a single user Worker. For more advanced routing patterns, you could route based on hostname, path, custom metadata, or other request properties.

Deploy your dynamic dispatch Worker:

```sh
npx wrangler deploy
```

### 5. Test a request

You will now send a request to the route your dynamic dispatch Worker is on. You should receive the response (`Hello world`) you created in your user Worker (`customer-worker-1`) that you call from your dynamic dispatch Worker (`my-dispatcher`).

Preview the response to your Workers for Platforms project at `https://my-dispatcher.<YOUR_WORKER_SUBDOMAIN>.workers.dev/`.

By completing this guide, you have successfully set up a dispatch namespace, dynamic dispatch Worker and user Worker to test a request end to end.

## Related resources

- [Workers for Platforms example project](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-for-platforms-example) - An end to end example project using Workers for Platforms
