src/content/docs/workflows/observability/metrics-analytics.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: Metrics and analytics
sidebar:
  order: 10
---

Workflows expose metrics that allow you to inspect and measure Workflow execution, error rates, steps, and total duration across each (and all) of your Workflows.

The metrics displayed in the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/) charts are queried from Cloudflare’s [GraphQL Analytics API](/analytics/graphql-api/). You can access the metrics [programmatically](#query-via-the-graphql-api) via GraphQL or HTTP client.

## Metrics

Workflows currently export the below metrics within the `workflowsAdaptiveGroups` GraphQL dataset.

| Metric             | GraphQL Field Name | Description                                                                                                                |
| ------------------ | ------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Read Queries (qps) | `readQueries`      | The number of read queries issued against a database. This is the raw number of read queries, and is not used for billing. |

Metrics can be queried (and are retained) for the past 31 days.

### Labels and dimensions

The `workflowsAdaptiveGroups` dataset provides the following dimensions for filtering and grouping query results:

- `workflowName` - Workflow name - e.g. `my-workflow`
- `instanceId` - Instance ID
- `stepName` - Step name
- `eventType` - Event type (see [event types](#event-types))
- `stepCount` - Step number within a given instance
- `date` - The date when the Workflow was triggered
- `datetimeFifteenMinutes` - The date and time truncated to fifteen minutes
- `datetimeFiveMinutes` - The date and time truncated to five minutes
- `datetimeHour` - The date and time truncated to the hour
- `datetimeMinute` - The date and time truncated to the minute

### Event types

The `eventType` metric allows you to filter (or groupBy) Workflows and steps based on their last observed status.

The possible values for `eventType` are documented below:

#### Workflows-level status labels

- `WORKFLOW_QUEUED` - the Workflow is queued, but not currently running. This can happen when you are at the [concurrency limit](/workflows/reference/limits/) and new instances are waiting for currently running instances to complete.
- `WORKFLOW_START` - the Workflow has started and is running.
- `WORKFLOW_SUCCESS` - the Workflow finished without errors.
- `WORKFLOW_FAILURE` - the Workflow failed due to errors (exhausting retries, errors thrown, etc).
- `WORKFLOW_TERMINATED` - the Workflow was explicitly terminated.

#### Step-level status labels

- `STEP_START` - the step has started and is running.
- `STEP_SUCCESS` - the step finished without errors.
- `STEP_FAILURE` - the step failed due to an error.
- `SLEEP_START` - the step is sleeping.
- `SLEEP_COMPLETE` - the step last finished sleeping.
- `ATTEMPT_START` - a step is retrying.
- `ATTEMPT_SUCCESS` - the retry succeeded.
- `ATTEMPT_FAILURE` - the retry attempt failed.

## View metrics in the dashboard

Per-Workflow and instance analytics for Workflows are available in the Cloudflare dashboard. To view current and historical metrics for a database:

1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com) and select your account.
2. Go to [**Workers & Pages** > **Workflows**](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/workers/workflows).
3. Select a Workflow to view its metrics.

You can optionally select a time window to query. This defaults to the last 24 hours.

## Query via the GraphQL API

You can programmatically query analytics for your Workflows via the [GraphQL Analytics API](/analytics/graphql-api/). This API queries the same datasets as the Cloudflare dashboard, and supports GraphQL [introspection](/analytics/graphql-api/features/discovery/introspection/).

Workflows GraphQL datasets require an `accountTag` filter with your Cloudflare account ID, and includes the `workflowsAdaptiveGroups` dataset.

### Examples

To query the count (number of workflow invocations) and sum of `wallTime` for a given `$workflowName` between `$datetimeStart` and `$datetimeEnd`, grouping by `date`:

```graphql graphql-api-explorer
query WorkflowInvocationsExample(
	$accountTag: string!
	$datetimeStart: Time
	$datetimeEnd: Time
	$workflowName: string
) {
	viewer {
		accounts(filter: { accountTag: $accountTag }) {
			wallTime: workflowsAdaptiveGroups(
				limit: 10000
				filter: {
					datetimeHour_geq: $datetimeStart
					datetimeHour_leq: $datetimeEnd
					workflowName: $workflowName
				}
				orderBy: [count_DESC]
			) {
				count
				sum {
					wallTime
				}
				dimensions {
					date: datetimeHour
				}
			}
		}
	}
}
```

Here we are doing the same for `wallTime`, `instanceRuns` and `stepCount` in the same query:

```graphql graphql-api-explorer
query WorkflowInvocationsExample2(
	$accountTag: string!
	$datetimeStart: Time
	$datetimeEnd: Time
	$workflowName: string
) {
	viewer {
		accounts(filter: { accountTag: $accountTag }) {
			instanceRuns: workflowsAdaptiveGroups(
				limit: 10000
				filter: {
					datetimeHour_geq: $datetimeStart
					datetimeHour_leq: $datetimeEnd
					workflowName: $workflowName
					eventType: "WORKFLOW_START"
				}
				orderBy: [count_DESC]
			) {
				count
				dimensions {
					date: datetimeHour
				}
			}
			stepCount: workflowsAdaptiveGroups(
				limit: 10000
				filter: {
					datetimeHour_geq: $datetimeStart
					datetimeHour_leq: $datetimeEnd
					workflowName: $workflowName
					eventType: "WORKFLOW_START"
				}
				orderBy: [count_DESC]
			) {
				count
				dimensions {
					date: datetimeHour
				}
			}
			wallTime: workflowsAdaptiveGroups(
				limit: 10000
				filter: {
					datetimeHour_geq: $datetimeStart
					datetimeHour_leq: $datetimeEnd
					workflowName: $workflowName
				}
				orderBy: [count_DESC]
			) {
				count
				sum {
					wallTime
				}
				dimensions {
					date: datetimeHour
				}
			}
		}
	}
}
```

Here lets query `workflowsAdaptive` for raw data about `$instanceId` between `$datetimeStart` and `$datetimeEnd`:

```graphql graphql-api-explorer
query WorkflowsAdaptiveExample(
	$accountTag: string!
	$datetimeStart: Time
	$datetimeEnd: Time
	$instanceId: string
) {
	viewer {
		accounts(filter: { accountTag: $accountTag }) {
			workflowsAdaptive(
				limit: 100
				filter: {
					datetime_geq: $datetimeStart
					datetime_leq: $datetimeEnd
					instanceId: $instanceId
				}
				orderBy: [datetime_ASC]
			) {
				datetime
				eventType
				workflowName
				instanceId
				stepCount
				wallTime
			}
		}
	}
}
```

#### GraphQL query variables

Example values for the query variables:

```json
{
	"accountTag": "fedfa729a5b0ecfd623bca1f9000f0a22",
	"datetimeStart": "2024-10-20T00:00:00Z",
	"datetimeEnd": "2024-10-29T00:00:00Z",
	"workflowName": "shoppingCart",
	"instanceId": "ecc48200-11c4-22a3-b05f-88a3c1c1db81"
}
```

Commit message:

Added dashbuttons to some zone-level pages in Email Routing, Web3, etc. (#26917)
* Added dashbuttons to some zone-level pages in Email Routing, Web3, etc.

* Adding dashbuttons to unowned product docs

src/content/docs/workflows/observability/metrics-analytics.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: Metrics and analytics
sidebar:
  order: 10
---

import { DashButton } from "~/components";

Workflows expose metrics that allow you to inspect and measure Workflow execution, error rates, steps, and total duration across each (and all) of your Workflows.

The metrics displayed in the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/) charts are queried from Cloudflare’s [GraphQL Analytics API](/analytics/graphql-api/). You can access the metrics [programmatically](#query-via-the-graphql-api) via GraphQL or HTTP client.

## Metrics

Workflows currently export the below metrics within the `workflowsAdaptiveGroups` GraphQL dataset.

| Metric             | GraphQL Field Name | Description                                                                                                                |
| ------------------ | ------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Read Queries (qps) | `readQueries`      | The number of read queries issued against a database. This is the raw number of read queries, and is not used for billing. |

Metrics can be queried (and are retained) for the past 31 days.

### Labels and dimensions

The `workflowsAdaptiveGroups` dataset provides the following dimensions for filtering and grouping query results:

- `workflowName` - Workflow name - e.g. `my-workflow`
- `instanceId` - Instance ID
- `stepName` - Step name
- `eventType` - Event type (see [event types](#event-types))
- `stepCount` - Step number within a given instance
- `date` - The date when the Workflow was triggered
- `datetimeFifteenMinutes` - The date and time truncated to fifteen minutes
- `datetimeFiveMinutes` - The date and time truncated to five minutes
- `datetimeHour` - The date and time truncated to the hour
- `datetimeMinute` - The date and time truncated to the minute

### Event types

The `eventType` metric allows you to filter (or groupBy) Workflows and steps based on their last observed status.

The possible values for `eventType` are documented below:

#### Workflows-level status labels

- `WORKFLOW_QUEUED` - the Workflow is queued, but not currently running. This can happen when you are at the [concurrency limit](/workflows/reference/limits/) and new instances are waiting for currently running instances to complete.
- `WORKFLOW_START` - the Workflow has started and is running.
- `WORKFLOW_SUCCESS` - the Workflow finished without errors.
- `WORKFLOW_FAILURE` - the Workflow failed due to errors (exhausting retries, errors thrown, etc).
- `WORKFLOW_TERMINATED` - the Workflow was explicitly terminated.

#### Step-level status labels

- `STEP_START` - the step has started and is running.
- `STEP_SUCCESS` - the step finished without errors.
- `STEP_FAILURE` - the step failed due to an error.
- `SLEEP_START` - the step is sleeping.
- `SLEEP_COMPLETE` - the step last finished sleeping.
- `ATTEMPT_START` - a step is retrying.
- `ATTEMPT_SUCCESS` - the retry succeeded.
- `ATTEMPT_FAILURE` - the retry attempt failed.

## View metrics in the dashboard

Per-Workflow and instance analytics for Workflows are available in the Cloudflare dashboard. To view current and historical metrics for a database:

1. In the Cloudflare dashboard, go to the **Workflows** page.

   <DashButton url="/?to=/:account/workers/workflows" />

2. Select a Workflow to view its metrics.

You can optionally select a time window to query. This defaults to the last 24 hours.

## Query via the GraphQL API

You can programmatically query analytics for your Workflows via the [GraphQL Analytics API](/analytics/graphql-api/). This API queries the same datasets as the Cloudflare dashboard, and supports GraphQL [introspection](/analytics/graphql-api/features/discovery/introspection/).

Workflows GraphQL datasets require an `accountTag` filter with your Cloudflare account ID, and includes the `workflowsAdaptiveGroups` dataset.

### Examples

To query the count (number of workflow invocations) and sum of `wallTime` for a given `$workflowName` between `$datetimeStart` and `$datetimeEnd`, grouping by `date`:

```graphql graphql-api-explorer
query WorkflowInvocationsExample(
	$accountTag: string!
	$datetimeStart: Time
	$datetimeEnd: Time
	$workflowName: string
) {
	viewer {
		accounts(filter: { accountTag: $accountTag }) {
			wallTime: workflowsAdaptiveGroups(
				limit: 10000
				filter: {
					datetimeHour_geq: $datetimeStart
					datetimeHour_leq: $datetimeEnd
					workflowName: $workflowName
				}
				orderBy: [count_DESC]
			) {
				count
				sum {
					wallTime
				}
				dimensions {
					date: datetimeHour
				}
			}
		}
	}
}
```

Here we are doing the same for `wallTime`, `instanceRuns` and `stepCount` in the same query:

```graphql graphql-api-explorer
query WorkflowInvocationsExample2(
	$accountTag: string!
	$datetimeStart: Time
	$datetimeEnd: Time
	$workflowName: string
) {
	viewer {
		accounts(filter: { accountTag: $accountTag }) {
			instanceRuns: workflowsAdaptiveGroups(
				limit: 10000
				filter: {
					datetimeHour_geq: $datetimeStart
					datetimeHour_leq: $datetimeEnd
					workflowName: $workflowName
					eventType: "WORKFLOW_START"
				}
				orderBy: [count_DESC]
			) {
				count
				dimensions {
					date: datetimeHour
				}
			}
			stepCount: workflowsAdaptiveGroups(
				limit: 10000
				filter: {
					datetimeHour_geq: $datetimeStart
					datetimeHour_leq: $datetimeEnd
					workflowName: $workflowName
					eventType: "WORKFLOW_START"
				}
				orderBy: [count_DESC]
			) {
				count
				dimensions {
					date: datetimeHour
				}
			}
			wallTime: workflowsAdaptiveGroups(
				limit: 10000
				filter: {
					datetimeHour_geq: $datetimeStart
					datetimeHour_leq: $datetimeEnd
					workflowName: $workflowName
				}
				orderBy: [count_DESC]
			) {
				count
				sum {
					wallTime
				}
				dimensions {
					date: datetimeHour
				}
			}
		}
	}
}
```

Here lets query `workflowsAdaptive` for raw data about `$instanceId` between `$datetimeStart` and `$datetimeEnd`:

```graphql graphql-api-explorer
query WorkflowsAdaptiveExample(
	$accountTag: string!
	$datetimeStart: Time
	$datetimeEnd: Time
	$instanceId: string
) {
	viewer {
		accounts(filter: { accountTag: $accountTag }) {
			workflowsAdaptive(
				limit: 100
				filter: {
					datetime_geq: $datetimeStart
					datetime_leq: $datetimeEnd
					instanceId: $instanceId
				}
				orderBy: [datetime_ASC]
			) {
				datetime
				eventType
				workflowName
				instanceId
				stepCount
				wallTime
			}
		}
	}
}
```

#### GraphQL query variables

Example values for the query variables:

```json
{
	"accountTag": "fedfa729a5b0ecfd623bca1f9000f0a22",
	"datetimeStart": "2024-10-20T00:00:00Z",
	"datetimeEnd": "2024-10-29T00:00:00Z",
	"workflowName": "shoppingCart",
	"instanceId": "ecc48200-11c4-22a3-b05f-88a3c1c1db81"
}
```
