src/content/docs/sandbox/configuration/dockerfile.mdx, before:

---
title: Dockerfile reference
pcx_content_type: configuration
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

Customize the sandbox container image with your own packages, tools, and configurations by extending the base runtime image.

## Base image

The Sandbox SDK uses a Ubuntu-based Linux container with Python, Node.js (via Bun), and common development tools pre-installed:

```dockerfile
FROM docker.io/cloudflare/sandbox:0.3.3
```

:::note
Always match the Docker image version to your npm package version. If you're using `@cloudflare/sandbox@0.3.3`, use `docker.io/cloudflare/sandbox:0.3.3` as your base image.
:::

**What's included:**

- Ubuntu 22.04 LTS base
- Python 3.11 with pip and venv
- Node.js 20 LTS with npm
- Bun 1.x (JavaScript/TypeScript runtime)
- Pre-installed Python packages: matplotlib, numpy, pandas, ipython
- System utilities: curl, wget, git, jq, zip, unzip, file, procps, ca-certificates

## Creating a custom image

Create a `Dockerfile` in your project root:

```dockerfile title="Dockerfile"
FROM docker.io/cloudflare/sandbox:0.3.3

# Install additional Python packages
RUN pip install --no-cache-dir \
    scikit-learn==1.3.0 \
    tensorflow==2.13.0 \
    transformers==4.30.0

# Install Node.js packages globally
RUN npm install -g typescript ts-node prettier

# Install system packages
RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y \
    postgresql-client \
    redis-tools \
    && rm -rf /var/lib/apt/lists/*
```

Update `wrangler.jsonc` to reference your Dockerfile:

```jsonc title="wrangler.jsonc"
{
	"containers": [
		{
			"class_name": "Sandbox",
			"image": "./Dockerfile",
		},
	],
}
```

When you run `wrangler dev` or `wrangler deploy`, Wrangler automatically builds your Docker image and pushes it to Cloudflare's container registry. You don't need to manually build or publish images.

## Custom startup scripts

Run services automatically when the container starts by creating a custom startup script:

```dockerfile title="Dockerfile"
FROM docker.io/cloudflare/sandbox:0.3.3

COPY my-app.js /workspace/my-app.js
COPY startup.sh /workspace/startup.sh
RUN chmod +x /workspace/startup.sh
CMD ["/workspace/startup.sh"]
```

```bash title="startup.sh"
#!/bin/bash

# Start your services in the background
node /workspace/my-app.js &

# Must end with this command
exec bun /container-server/dist/index.js
```

Your startup script must end with `exec bun /container-server/dist/index.js` to start the SDK's control plane.

### Multiple services

```bash title="startup.sh"
#!/bin/bash

redis-server --daemonize yes
until redis-cli ping; do sleep 1; done

node /workspace/api-server.js &

exec bun /container-server/dist/index.js
```

## Related resources

- [Image Management](/containers/platform-details/image-management/) - Building and pushing images to Cloudflare\'s registry
- [Wrangler configuration](/sandbox/configuration/wrangler/) - Using custom images in wrangler.jsonc
- [Docker documentation](https://docs.docker.com/reference/dockerfile/) - Complete Dockerfile syntax
- [Container concepts](/sandbox/concepts/containers/) - Understanding the runtime environment

Commit message:

Document bucket mounting and SDK options (#26607)
Adds comprehensive documentation for S3-compatible bucket mounting
including a tutorial, how-to guide, and API reference. Documents
configuration options (sleepAfter, containerTimeouts, normalizeId)
and new API methods (exists() for file checking, version sync).
Clarifies encoding parameter behavior and FUSE limitation requiring
production deployment for bucket mounting. Updates Python version
to 3.11.14 in base image specification.

src/content/docs/sandbox/configuration/dockerfile.mdx, after:

---
title: Dockerfile reference
pcx_content_type: configuration
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

Customize the sandbox container image with your own packages, tools, and configurations by extending the base runtime image.

## Base image

The Sandbox SDK uses a Ubuntu-based Linux container with Python, Node.js (via Bun), and common development tools pre-installed:

```dockerfile
FROM docker.io/cloudflare/sandbox:0.3.3
```

:::caution[Version synchronization required]
Always match the Docker image version to your npm package version. If you're using `@cloudflare/sandbox@0.3.3`, use `docker.io/cloudflare/sandbox:0.3.3` as your base image.

**Why this matters**: The SDK automatically checks version compatibility on startup. Mismatched versions can cause features to break or behave unexpectedly. If versions don't match, you'll see warnings in your logs.

See [Version compatibility](/sandbox/concepts/sandboxes/#version-compatibility) for troubleshooting version mismatch warnings.
:::

**What's included:**

- Ubuntu 22.04 LTS base
- Python 3.11.14 with pip and venv
- Node.js 20 LTS with npm
- Bun 1.x (JavaScript/TypeScript runtime)
- Pre-installed Python packages: matplotlib, numpy, pandas, ipython
- System utilities: curl, wget, git, jq, zip, unzip, file, procps, ca-certificates

## Creating a custom image

Create a `Dockerfile` in your project root:

```dockerfile title="Dockerfile"
FROM docker.io/cloudflare/sandbox:0.3.3

# Install additional Python packages
RUN pip install --no-cache-dir \
    scikit-learn==1.3.0 \
    tensorflow==2.13.0 \
    transformers==4.30.0

# Install Node.js packages globally
RUN npm install -g typescript ts-node prettier

# Install system packages
RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y \
    postgresql-client \
    redis-tools \
    && rm -rf /var/lib/apt/lists/*
```

Update `wrangler.jsonc` to reference your Dockerfile:

```jsonc title="wrangler.jsonc"
{
	"containers": [
		{
			"class_name": "Sandbox",
			"image": "./Dockerfile",
		},
	],
}
```

When you run `wrangler dev` or `wrangler deploy`, Wrangler automatically builds your Docker image and pushes it to Cloudflare's container registry. You don't need to manually build or publish images.

## Custom startup scripts

Run services automatically when the container starts by creating a custom startup script:

```dockerfile title="Dockerfile"
FROM docker.io/cloudflare/sandbox:0.3.3

COPY my-app.js /workspace/my-app.js
COPY startup.sh /workspace/startup.sh
RUN chmod +x /workspace/startup.sh
CMD ["/workspace/startup.sh"]
```

```bash title="startup.sh"
#!/bin/bash

# Start your services in the background
node /workspace/my-app.js &

# Must end with this command
exec bun /container-server/dist/index.js
```

Your startup script must end with `exec bun /container-server/dist/index.js` to start the SDK's control plane.

### Multiple services

```bash title="startup.sh"
#!/bin/bash

redis-server --daemonize yes
until redis-cli ping; do sleep 1; done

node /workspace/api-server.js &

exec bun /container-server/dist/index.js
```

## Related resources

- [Image Management](/containers/platform-details/image-management/) - Building and pushing images to Cloudflare\'s registry
- [Wrangler configuration](/sandbox/configuration/wrangler/) - Using custom images in wrangler.jsonc
- [Docker documentation](https://docs.docker.com/reference/dockerfile/) - Complete Dockerfile syntax
- [Container concepts](/sandbox/concepts/containers/) - Understanding the runtime environment
