src/content/docs/browser-rendering/limits.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: configuration
title: Limits
description: Learn about the limits associated with Browser Rendering.
sidebar:
  order: 12
---

import { Render, Plan, Tabs, TabItem, DashButton } from "~/components";

<Plan type="workers-all" />

## Workers Free

Users on the [Workers Free plan](/workers/platform/pricing/) are limited to **10 minutes of browser rendering usage per day**.

To increase this limit, go to the **Compute (Workers) > Workers plans** page in the Cloudflare dashboard:

    <DashButton url="/?to=/:account/workers/plans" />

[Learn more about Workers Plans](/workers/platform/pricing).

| Feature                                | Limit           |
| -------------------------------------- | --------------- |
| Concurrent browsers per account (Workers Bindings only)        | 3 per account   |
| New browser instances per minute (Workers Bindings only)      | 3 per minute    |
| Browser timeout                        | 60 seconds |
| Total requests per min (REST API only) | 6 per minute  [^1]  |

[^1]: Rate limits are enforced with a fixed per-second fill rate. For example, a limit of six requests per minute translates to one request every 10 seconds. This means you cannot send all six requests at once; the API expects them to be spread evenly over the minute. If your account has a custom higher limit, it will also be enforced as a per-second rate.

:::note[Note on browser timeout]
By default, a browser will time out if it does not get any [devtools](https://chromedevtools.github.io/devtools-protocol/) command for 60 seconds, freeing one instance. Users can optionally increase this by using the [`keep_alive` option](/browser-rendering/puppeteer/#keep-alive). `browser.close()` releases the browser instance.
:::

## Workers Paid

:::note[Higher limit requests]
The limits for Browser Rendering will continue to be raised over time. In the meantime, Cloudflare will grant [requests for higher limits](https://forms.gle/CdueDKvb26mTaepa9) on a case-by-case basis if a need for a higher limit can be clearly demonstrated.
:::

| Feature                                | Limit               |
| -------------------------------------- | ------------------- |
| Concurrent browsers per account (Workers Bindings only)        | 30 per account [^2] |
| New browser instances per minute (Workers Bindings only)       | 30 per minute [^2]  |
| Browser timeout                        | 60 seconds |
| Total requests per min (REST API only) | 180 per minute [^2][^3]       |

[^2]: Contact our team to request increases to this limit.
[^3]: Rate limits are enforced with a fixed per-second fill rate. For example, a limit of 180 requests per minute translates to three requests per second. This means you cannot send all 180 requests at once; the API expects them to be spread evenly over the minute. If your account has a custom higher limit, it will also be enforced as a per-second rate.

:::note[Note on browser timeout]
By default, a browser will time out if it does not get any [devtools](https://chromedevtools.github.io/devtools-protocol/) command for 60 seconds, freeing one instance. Users can optionally increase this by using the [`keep_alive` option](/browser-rendering/puppeteer/#keep-alive). `browser.close()` releases the browser instance.
:::

## Note on concurrency

While the limits above define the maximum number of concurrent browser sessions per account, in practice you may not need to hit these limits. Browser sessions close automatically—by default, after 60 seconds of inactivity or upon task completion—so if each session finishes its work before a new request comes in, the effective concurrency is lower. This means that most workflows do not require very high concurrent browser limits.

## Limits FAQ & troubleshooting

To upgrade, go to the **Compute (Workers) > Workers plans** page in the Cloudflare dashboard:

    <DashButton url="/?to=/:account/workers/plans" />

<Render
  file="manage-concurrency-faq"
  product="browser-rendering"
/>

### Can I increase the browser timeout?

By default, a browser instance will time out after 60 seconds of inactivity. If you want to keep the browser open longer, you can use the [`keep_alive` option](/browser-rendering/puppeteer/#keep-alive) which allows you to extend the timeout to up to 10 minutes.

### Is there a maximum session duration?

There is no fixed maximum lifetime for a browser session as long as it remains active. By default, Browser Rendering closes sessions after one minute of inactivity to prevent unintended usage. You can [increase this inactivity timeout](/browser-rendering/puppeteer/#keep-alive) to up to 10 minutes.

If you need sessions to remain open longer, keep them active by sending a command at least once within your configured inactivity window (for example, every 10 minutes). Sessions also close when Browser Rendering rolls out a new release.

### I upgraded from the Workers Free plan, but I'm still hitting the 10-minute per day limit. What should I do?

If you recently upgraded to the [Workers Paid plan](/workers/platform/pricing/) but still encounter the 10-minute per day limit, redeploy your Worker to ensure your usage is correctly associated with the new plan.

### Why is my browser usage higher than expected?

If you are hitting the daily limit or seeing higher usage than expected, the most common cause is browser sessions that are not being closed properly. When a browser session is not explicitly closed with `browser.close()`, it remains open and continues to consume browser time until it times out (60 seconds by default, or up to 10 minutes if you use the `keep_alive` option).

To minimize usage:
- Always call `browser.close()` when you are finished with a browser session.
- Wrap your browser code in a `try/finally` block to ensure `browser.close()` is called even if an error occurs.
- Use [`puppeteer.history()`](/browser-rendering/puppeteer/#list-recent-sessions) or [`playwright.history()`](/browser-rendering/playwright/#list-recent-sessions) to review recent sessions and identify any that closed due to `BrowserIdle` instead of `NormalClosure`. Sessions that close due to idle timeout indicate the browser was not closed explicitly.

You can monitor your usage and view session close reasons in the Cloudflare dashboard on the **Browser Rendering** page:

<DashButton url="/?to=/:account/workers/browser-rendering" />

Refer to [Browser close reasons](/browser-rendering/reference/browser-close-reasons/) for more information.

### Error: `429 Too many requests`

When you make too many requests in a short period of time, Browser Rendering will respond with HTTP status code `429 Too many requests`.
The response includes a `Retry-After` header, which specifies how many seconds to wait before retrying. You can view your account's rate limits on the [Limits](/browser-rendering/limits/) page.

The example below demonstrates how to handle rate limiting gracefully by reading the `Retry-After` value and retrying the request after that delay.

<Tabs syncKey="workersExamples"> <TabItem label="REST API">
```js
const response = await fetch('https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/<accountId>/browser-rendering/content', {
    method: 'POST',
    headers: {
        'Content-Type': 'application/json',
        'Authorization': 'Bearer <your-token>',
    },
    body: JSON.stringify({ url: 'https://example.com' })
});

if (response.status === 429) {
    const retryAfter = response.headers.get('Retry-After');
    console.log(`Rate limited. Waiting ${retryAfter} seconds...`);
    await new Promise(resolve => setTimeout(resolve, retryAfter * 1000));

    // Retry the request
    const retryResponse = await fetch(/* same request as above */);
}
```

</TabItem> <TabItem label="Workers Bindings">

```js
import puppeteer from "@cloudflare/puppeteer";

try {
	const browser = await puppeteer.launch(env.MYBROWSER);

	const page = await browser.newPage();
	await page.goto("https://example.com");
	const content = await page.content();

	await browser.close();
} catch (error) {
	if (error.status === 429) {
		const retryAfter = error.headers.get("Retry-After");
		console.log(
			`Browser instance limit reached. Waiting ${retryAfter} seconds...`,
		);
		await new Promise((resolve) => setTimeout(resolve, retryAfter * 1000));

		// Retry launching browser
		const browser = await puppeteer.launch(env.MYBROWSER);
	}
}
```

</TabItem> </Tabs>

### Error: `429 Browser time limit exceeded for today`

This `Error processing the request: Unable to create new browser: code: 429: message: Browser time limit exceeded for today` indicates you have hit the daily browser limit on the Workers Free plan. [Workers Free plan accounts are limited](/browser-rendering/limits/#workers-free) to 10 minutes of browser rendering usage per day. If you exceed that limit, you will receive a `429` error until the next UTC day.

You can [increase your limits](/browser-rendering/limits/#workers-paid) by upgrading to a Workers Paid plan on the **Workers plans** page of the Cloudflare dashboard:

    <DashButton url="/?to=/:account/workers/plans" />

If you recently upgraded but still encounter the 10-minute per day limit, redeploy your Worker to ensure your usage is correctly associated with the new plan.

Commit message:

Kliao/browser rendering limits faq (#27438)
* Improve browser rendering limits page: add fill rate info to 429 FAQ, fix self-referential links, fix DashButton indentation, add comma

* Update src/content/docs/browser-rendering/limits.mdx

Co-authored-by: ToriLindsay <tgalatro@cloudflare.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: ToriLindsay <tgalatro@cloudflare.com>

src/content/docs/browser-rendering/limits.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: configuration
title: Limits
description: Learn about the limits associated with Browser Rendering.
sidebar:
  order: 12
---

import { Render, Plan, Tabs, TabItem, DashButton } from "~/components";

<Plan type="workers-all" />

## Workers Free

Users on the [Workers Free plan](/workers/platform/pricing/) are limited to **10 minutes of browser rendering usage per day**.

To increase this limit, go to the **Compute (Workers) > Workers plans** page in the Cloudflare dashboard:

<DashButton url="/?to=/:account/workers/plans" />

[Learn more about Workers Plans](/workers/platform/pricing).

| Feature                                | Limit           |
| -------------------------------------- | --------------- |
| Concurrent browsers per account (Workers Bindings only)        | 3 per account   |
| New browser instances per minute (Workers Bindings only)      | 3 per minute    |
| Browser timeout                        | 60 seconds |
| Total requests per min (REST API only) | 6 per minute  [^1]  |

[^1]: Rate limits are enforced with a fixed per-second fill rate. For example, a limit of six requests per minute translates to one request every 10 seconds. This means you cannot send all six requests at once; the API expects them to be spread evenly over the minute. If your account has a custom higher limit, it will also be enforced as a per-second rate.

:::note[Note on browser timeout]
By default, a browser will time out if it does not get any [devtools](https://chromedevtools.github.io/devtools-protocol/) command for 60 seconds, freeing one instance. Users can optionally increase this by using the [`keep_alive` option](/browser-rendering/puppeteer/#keep-alive). `browser.close()` releases the browser instance.
:::

## Workers Paid

:::note[Higher limit requests]
The limits for Browser Rendering will continue to be raised over time. In the meantime, Cloudflare will grant [requests for higher limits](https://forms.gle/CdueDKvb26mTaepa9) on a case-by-case basis if a need for a higher limit can be clearly demonstrated.
:::

| Feature                                | Limit               |
| -------------------------------------- | ------------------- |
| Concurrent browsers per account (Workers Bindings only)        | 30 per account [^2] |
| New browser instances per minute (Workers Bindings only)       | 30 per minute [^2]  |
| Browser timeout                        | 60 seconds |
| Total requests per min (REST API only) | 180 per minute [^2][^3]       |

[^2]: Contact our team to request increases to this limit.
[^3]: Rate limits are enforced with a fixed per-second fill rate. For example, a limit of 180 requests per minute translates to three requests per second. This means you cannot send all 180 requests at once; the API expects them to be spread evenly over the minute. If your account has a custom higher limit, it will also be enforced as a per-second rate.

:::note[Note on browser timeout]
By default, a browser will time out if it does not get any [devtools](https://chromedevtools.github.io/devtools-protocol/) command for 60 seconds, freeing one instance. Users can optionally increase this by using the [`keep_alive` option](/browser-rendering/puppeteer/#keep-alive). `browser.close()` releases the browser instance.
:::

## Note on concurrency

While the limits above define the maximum number of concurrent browser sessions per account, in practice you may not need to hit these limits. Browser sessions close automatically—by default, after 60 seconds of inactivity or upon task completion—so if each session finishes its work before a new request comes in, the effective concurrency is lower. This means that most workflows do not require very high concurrent browser limits.

## Limits FAQ & troubleshooting

To upgrade, go to the **Compute (Workers) > Workers plans** page in the Cloudflare dashboard:

<DashButton url="/?to=/:account/workers/plans" />

<Render
  file="manage-concurrency-faq"
  product="browser-rendering"
/>

### Can I increase the browser timeout?

By default, a browser instance will time out after 60 seconds of inactivity. If you want to keep the browser open longer, you can use the [`keep_alive` option](/browser-rendering/puppeteer/#keep-alive), which allows you to extend the timeout to up to 10 minutes.

### Is there a maximum session duration?

There is no fixed maximum lifetime for a browser session as long as it remains active. By default, Browser Rendering closes sessions after one minute of inactivity to prevent unintended usage. You can [increase this inactivity timeout](/browser-rendering/puppeteer/#keep-alive) to up to 10 minutes.

If you need sessions to remain open longer, keep them active by sending a command at least once within your configured inactivity window (for example, every 10 minutes). Sessions also close when Browser Rendering rolls out a new release.

### I upgraded from the Workers Free plan, but I'm still hitting the 10-minute per day limit. What should I do?

If you recently upgraded to the [Workers Paid plan](/workers/platform/pricing/) but still encounter the 10-minute per day limit, redeploy your Worker to ensure your usage is correctly associated with the new plan.

### Why is my browser usage higher than expected?

If you are hitting the daily limit or seeing higher usage than expected, the most common cause is browser sessions that are not being closed properly. When a browser session is not explicitly closed with `browser.close()`, it remains open and continues to consume browser time until it times out (60 seconds by default, or up to 10 minutes if you use the `keep_alive` option).

To minimize usage:
- Always call `browser.close()` when you are finished with a browser session.
- Wrap your browser code in a `try/finally` block to ensure `browser.close()` is called even if an error occurs.
- Use [`puppeteer.history()`](/browser-rendering/puppeteer/#list-recent-sessions) or [`playwright.history()`](/browser-rendering/playwright/#list-recent-sessions) to review recent sessions and identify any that closed due to `BrowserIdle` instead of `NormalClosure`. Sessions that close due to idle timeout indicate the browser was not closed explicitly.

You can monitor your usage and view session close reasons in the Cloudflare dashboard on the **Browser Rendering** page:

<DashButton url="/?to=/:account/workers/browser-rendering" />

Refer to [Browser close reasons](/browser-rendering/reference/browser-close-reasons/) for more information.

### Error: `429 Too many requests`

When you make too many requests in a short period of time, Browser Rendering will respond with HTTP status code `429 Too many requests`.
The response includes a `Retry-After` header, which specifies how many seconds to wait before retrying. You can view your account's rate limits in the [Workers Free](#workers-free) and [Workers Paid](#workers-paid) sections above.

Rate limits are enforced with a fixed per-second fill rate. For example, a limit of 180 requests per minute translates to three requests per second. You cannot send all requests at once; the API expects them to be spread evenly over the minute.

The example below demonstrates how to handle rate limiting gracefully by reading the `Retry-After` value and retrying the request after that delay.

<Tabs syncKey="workersExamples"> <TabItem label="REST API">
```js
const response = await fetch('https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/<accountId>/browser-rendering/content', {
    method: 'POST',
    headers: {
        'Content-Type': 'application/json',
        'Authorization': 'Bearer <your-token>',
    },
    body: JSON.stringify({ url: 'https://example.com' })
});

if (response.status === 429) {
    const retryAfter = response.headers.get('Retry-After');
    console.log(`Rate limited. Waiting ${retryAfter} seconds...`);
    await new Promise(resolve => setTimeout(resolve, retryAfter * 1000));

    // Retry the request
    const retryResponse = await fetch(/* same request as above */);
}
```

</TabItem> <TabItem label="Workers Bindings">

```js
import puppeteer from "@cloudflare/puppeteer";

try {
	const browser = await puppeteer.launch(env.MYBROWSER);

	const page = await browser.newPage();
	await page.goto("https://example.com");
	const content = await page.content();

	await browser.close();
} catch (error) {
	if (error.status === 429) {
		const retryAfter = error.headers.get("Retry-After");
		console.log(
			`Browser instance limit reached. Waiting ${retryAfter} seconds...`,
		);
		await new Promise((resolve) => setTimeout(resolve, retryAfter * 1000));

		// Retry launching browser
		const browser = await puppeteer.launch(env.MYBROWSER);
	}
}
```

</TabItem> </Tabs>

### Error: `429 Browser time limit exceeded for today`

This `Error processing the request: Unable to create new browser: code: 429: message: Browser time limit exceeded for today` error indicates you have hit the daily browser limit on the Workers Free plan. [Workers Free plan accounts are limited](#workers-free) to 10 minutes of browser rendering usage per day. If you exceed that limit, you will receive a `429` error until the next UTC day.

You can [increase your limits](#workers-paid) by upgrading to a Workers Paid plan on the **Workers plans** page of the Cloudflare dashboard:

<DashButton url="/?to=/:account/workers/plans" />

If you recently upgraded but still encounter the 10-minute per day limit, redeploy your Worker to ensure your usage is correctly associated with the new plan.
