src/content/docs/workers/vite-plugin/reference/api.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: reference
title: API
sidebar:
  order: 3
description: Vite plugin API
---

import { Type, MetaInfo } from "~/components";

## `cloudflare()`

The `cloudflare` plugin should be included in the Vite `plugins` array:

```ts {2, 5} title="vite.config.ts"
import { defineConfig } from "vite";
import { cloudflare } from "@cloudflare/vite-plugin";

export default defineConfig({
	plugins: [cloudflare()],
});
```

It accepts an optional `PluginConfig` parameter.

## `interface PluginConfig`

- `configPath` <Type text='string' /> <MetaInfo text='optional' />

  An optional path to your Worker config file.
  By default, a `wrangler.jsonc`, `wrangler.json`, or `wrangler.toml` file in the root of your application will be used as the Worker config.

  For more information about the Worker configuration, see [Configuration](/workers/wrangler/configuration/).

- `viteEnvironment` <Type text='{ name?: string }' /> <MetaInfo text='optional' />

  Optional Vite environment options.
  By default, the environment name is the Worker name with `-` characters replaced with `_`.
  Setting the name here will override this.
  A typical use case is setting `viteEnvironment: { name: "ssr" }` to apply the Worker to the SSR environment.

  See [Vite Environments](/workers/vite-plugin/reference/vite-environments/) for more information.

- `persistState` <Type text='boolean | { path: string }' /> <MetaInfo text='optional' />

  An optional override for state persistence.
  By default, state is persisted to `.wrangler/state`.
  A custom `path` can be provided or, alternatively, persistence can be disabled by setting the value to `false`.

- `inspectorPort` <Type text='number | false' /> <MetaInfo text='optional' />

  An optional override for debugging your Workers.
  By default, the debugging inspector is enabled and listens on port `9229`.
  A custom port can be provided or, alternatively, setting this to `false` will disable the debugging inspector.

  See [Debugging](/workers/vite-plugin/reference/debugging/) for more information.

- `auxiliaryWorkers` <Type text='Array<AuxiliaryWorkerConfig>' /> <MetaInfo text='optional' />

  An optional array of auxiliary Workers.
  Auxiliary Workers are additional Workers that are used as part of your application.
  You can use [service bindings](/workers/runtime-apis/bindings/service-bindings/) to call auxiliary Workers from your main (entry) Worker.
  All requests are routed through your entry Worker.
  During the build, each Worker is output to a separate subdirectory of `dist`.

  :::note
  Auxiliary Workers are not currently supported when using [React Router](https://reactrouter.com/) as a framework.
  :::

  :::note
  When running `wrangler deploy`, only your main (entry) Worker will be deployed.
  If using multiple Workers, each auxiliary Worker must be deployed individually.
  You can inspect the `dist` directory and then run `wrangler deploy -c dist/<auxiliary-worker>/wrangler.json` for each.
  :::

## `interface AuxiliaryWorkerConfig`

- `configPath` <Type text='string' />

  A required path to your Worker config file.

  For more information about the Worker configuration, see [Configuration](/workers/wrangler/configuration/).

- `viteEnvironment` <Type text='{ name?: string }' /> <MetaInfo text='optional' />

  Optional Vite environment options.
  By default, the environment name is the Worker name with `-` characters replaced with `_`.
  Setting the name here will override this.

  See [Vite Environments](/workers/vite-plugin/reference/vite-environments/) for more information.

Commit message:

[Vite plugin]: add programmatic worker config (#26819)
* [Vite plugin]: add programmatic worker config

* Add changelog

* Change name of option

* Document config values unsupported by Vite

* FIxes

* Changes from review

* Re-order

* Update date in changelog

src/content/docs/workers/vite-plugin/reference/api.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: reference
title: API
sidebar:
  order: 3
description: Vite plugin API
---

import { Type, MetaInfo } from "~/components";

## `cloudflare()`

The `cloudflare` plugin should be included in the Vite `plugins` array:

```ts {2, 5} title="vite.config.ts"
import { defineConfig } from "vite";
import { cloudflare } from "@cloudflare/vite-plugin";

export default defineConfig({
	plugins: [cloudflare()],
});
```

It accepts an optional `PluginConfig` parameter.

## `interface PluginConfig`

- `configPath` <Type text='string' /> <MetaInfo text='optional' />

  An optional path to your Worker config file.
  By default, a `wrangler.jsonc`, `wrangler.json`, or `wrangler.toml` file in the root of your application will be used as the Worker config.

  For more information about the Worker configuration, see [Configuration](/workers/wrangler/configuration/).

- `config` <Type text='Partial<WorkerConfig> | ((config: WorkerConfig) => Partial<WorkerConfig> | void)' /> <MetaInfo text='optional' />

  Customize or override Worker configuration programmatically.
  Accepts a partial configuration object or a function that receives the current config.

  Applied after any config file loads. Use it to override values, modify the existing config, or define Workers entirely in code.

  See [Programmatic configuration](/workers/vite-plugin/reference/programmatic-configuration/) for details.

- `viteEnvironment` <Type text='{ name?: string }' /> <MetaInfo text='optional' />

  Optional Vite environment options.
  By default, the environment name is the Worker name with `-` characters replaced with `_`.
  Setting the name here will override this.
  A typical use case is setting `viteEnvironment: { name: "ssr" }` to apply the Worker to the SSR environment.

  See [Vite Environments](/workers/vite-plugin/reference/vite-environments/) for more information.

- `persistState` <Type text='boolean | { path: string }' /> <MetaInfo text='optional' />

  An optional override for state persistence.
  By default, state is persisted to `.wrangler/state`.
  A custom `path` can be provided or, alternatively, persistence can be disabled by setting the value to `false`.

- `inspectorPort` <Type text='number | false' /> <MetaInfo text='optional' />

  An optional override for debugging your Workers.
  By default, the debugging inspector is enabled and listens on port `9229`.
  A custom port can be provided or, alternatively, setting this to `false` will disable the debugging inspector.

  See [Debugging](/workers/vite-plugin/reference/debugging/) for more information.

- `auxiliaryWorkers` <Type text='Array<AuxiliaryWorkerConfig>' /> <MetaInfo text='optional' />

  An optional array of auxiliary Workers.
  Auxiliary Workers are additional Workers that are used as part of your application.
  You can use [service bindings](/workers/runtime-apis/bindings/service-bindings/) to call auxiliary Workers from your main (entry) Worker.
  All requests are routed through your entry Worker.
  During the build, each Worker is output to a separate subdirectory of `dist`.

  :::note
  Auxiliary Workers are not currently supported when using [React Router](https://reactrouter.com/) as a framework.
  :::

  :::note
  When running `wrangler deploy`, only your main (entry) Worker will be deployed.
  If using multiple Workers, each auxiliary Worker must be deployed individually.
  You can inspect the `dist` directory and then run `wrangler deploy -c dist/<auxiliary-worker>/wrangler.json` for each.
  :::

## `interface AuxiliaryWorkerConfig`

Auxiliary Workers require a `configPath`, a `config` option, or both.

- `configPath` <Type text='string' /> <MetaInfo text='optional' />

  The path to your Worker config file.
  This field is required unless `config` is provided.

  For more information about the Worker configuration, see [Configuration](/workers/wrangler/configuration/).

- `config` <Type text='Partial<WorkerConfig> | ((config: WorkerConfig) => Partial<WorkerConfig> | void)' /> <MetaInfo text='optional' />

  Customize or override Worker configuration programmatically.
  When used without `configPath`, this allows defining auxiliary Workers entirely in code.

  See [Programmatic configuration](/workers/vite-plugin/reference/programmatic-configuration/) for usage examples.

- `viteEnvironment` <Type text='{ name?: string }' /> <MetaInfo text='optional' />

  Optional Vite environment options.
  By default, the environment name is the Worker name with `-` characters replaced with `_`.
  Setting the name here will override this.

  See [Vite Environments](/workers/vite-plugin/reference/vite-environments/) for more information.
