src/content/docs/waf/custom-rules/index.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: Custom rules
sidebar:
  order: 5
---

import { Render, FeatureTable } from "~/components";

<Render file="custom-rules-intro" product="waf" />

Custom rules are evaluated in order, and some actions like _Block_ will stop the evaluation of other rules. For more details on actions and their behavior, refer to the [actions reference](/ruleset-engine/rules-language/actions/).

To define sets of custom rules that apply to more than one zone, use [custom rulesets](/waf/account/custom-rulesets/), which require an Enterprise plan with a paid add-on.

## Availability

<FeatureTable id="security.waf_c_custom_rules" />

---

## Next steps

Refer to the following pages for instructions on creating custom rules:

- [Create a custom rule in the dashboard](/waf/custom-rules/create-dashboard/)
- [Create a custom rule via API](/waf/custom-rules/create-api/)
- [WAF custom rules configuration using Terraform](/terraform/additional-configurations/waf-custom-rules/)

For examples of using custom rules to address common use cases, refer to [Common use cases](/waf/custom-rules/use-cases/).

Commit message:

[WAF] Custom rulesets at zone level (#26765)
---------

Co-authored-by: Kate Tungusova <70746074+deadlypants1973@users.noreply.github.com>

src/content/docs/waf/custom-rules/index.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: Custom rules
sidebar:
  order: 5
---

import { Render, FeatureTable } from "~/components";

<Render file="custom-rules-intro" product="waf" />

Custom rules are evaluated in order, and some actions like _Block_ will stop the evaluation of other rules. For more details on actions and their behavior, refer to the [actions reference](/ruleset-engine/rules-language/actions/).

To define sets of custom rules that apply to more than one zone, use [custom rulesets](/waf/account/custom-rulesets/). At the zone level, all customers can create and deploy custom rulesets. Custom rulesets at the account level require an Enterprise plan with a paid add-on.

:::note
Currently, the Cloudflare dashboard does not support working with custom rulesets at the zone level. You will need to [use the Cloudflare API](/waf/custom-rules/create-api/) to configure or deploy these rulesets.
:::

## Availability

<FeatureTable id="security.waf_c_custom_rules" />

The maximum number of custom rules applies to an entire [phase](/ruleset-engine/about/phases/). Each scope (zone or account) has a separate maximum number of rules, counted in the following way:

- Zone: All custom rules plus all the rules across custom rulesets defined at the zone level.
- Account: All the rules across custom rulesets defined at the account level.

---

## Next steps

Refer to the following pages for instructions on creating custom rules:

- [Create a custom rule in the dashboard](/waf/custom-rules/create-dashboard/)
- [Create a custom rule via API](/waf/custom-rules/create-api/)
- [WAF custom rules configuration using Terraform](/terraform/additional-configurations/waf-custom-rules/)

For examples of using custom rules to address common use cases, refer to [Common use cases](/waf/custom-rules/use-cases/).
