src/content/docs/r2/examples/ssec.mdx, before:

---
title: Use SSE-C
pcx_content_type: tutorial
difficulty: Intermediate
reviewed: 2024-09-27
---

import { Tabs, TabItem } from "~/components";

The following tutorial shows some snippets for how to use Server-Side Encryption with Customer-Provided Keys (SSE-C) on R2.

## Before you begin

- When using SSE-C, make sure you store your encryption key(s) in a safe place. In the event you misplace them, Cloudflare will be unable to recover the body of any objects encrypted using those keys.
- While SSE-C does provide MD5 hashes, this hash can be used for identification of keys only. The MD5 hash is not used in the encryption process itself.

## Workers

<Tabs>
	<TabItem label="TypeScript" icon="seti:typescript">
		```typescript
		interface Environment {
			R2: R2Bucket
			/**
			 * In this example, your SSE-C is stored as a hexadecimal string (preferably a secret).
			 * The R2 API also supports providing an ArrayBuffer directly, if you want to generate/
			 * store your keys dynamically.
			*/
			SSEC_KEY: string
		}
		export default {
			async fetch(req: Request, env: Env) {
				const { SSEC_KEY, R2 } = env;
				const { pathname: filename } = new URL(req.url);
				switch(req.method) {
					case "GET": {
						const maybeObj = await env.BUCKET.get(filename, {
							onlyIf: req.headers,
							ssecKey: SSEC_KEY,
						});
						if(!maybeObj) {
							return new Response("Not Found", {
								status: 404
							});
						}
						const headers = new Headers();
						maybeObj.writeHttpMetadata(headers);
						return new Response(body, {
							headers
						});
					}
					case 'POST': {
						const multipartUpload = await env.BUCKET.createMultipartUpload(filename, {
							httpMetadata: req.headers,
							ssecKey: SSEC_KEY,
						});
						/**
						 * This example only provides a single-part "multipart" upload.
						 * For multiple parts, the process is the same(the key must be provided)
						 * for every part.
						*/
						const partOne = await multipartUpload.uploadPart(1, req.body, ssecKey);
						const obj = await multipartUpload.complete([partOne]);
						const headers = new Headers();
						obj.writeHttpMetadata(headers);
						return new Response(null, {
							headers,
							status: 201
						});
					}
					case 'PUT': {
						const obj = await env.BUCKET.put(filename, req.body, {
							httpMetadata: req.headers,
							ssecKey: SSEC_KEY,
						});
						const headers = new Headers();
						maybeObj.writeHttpMetadata(headers);
						return new Response(null, {
							headers,
							status: 201
						});
					}
					default: {
						return new Response("Method not allowed", {
							status: 405
						});
					}
				}
			}
		}
		```
	</TabItem>
	<TabItem label="JavaScript" icon="seti:javascript">
		```javascript
		/**
			 * In this example, your SSE-C is stored as a hexadecimal string(preferably a secret).
			 * The R2 API also supports providing an ArrayBuffer directly, if you want to generate/
			 * store your keys dynamically.
		*/
		export default {
			async fetch(req, env) {
				const { SSEC_KEY, R2 } = env;
				const { pathname: filename } = new URL(req.url);
				switch(req.method) {
					case "GET": {
						const maybeObj = await env.BUCKET.get(filename, {
							onlyIf: req.headers,
							ssecKey: SSEC_KEY,
						});
						if(!maybeObj) {
							return new Response("Not Found", {
								status: 404
							});
						}
						const headers = new Headers();
						maybeObj.writeHttpMetadata(headers);
						return new Response(body, {
							headers
						});
					}
					case 'POST': {
						const multipartUpload = await env.BUCKET.createMultipartUpload(filename, {
							httpMetadata: req.headers,
							ssecKey: SSEC_KEY,
						});
						/**
						 * This example only provides a single-part "multipart" upload.
						 * For multiple parts, the process is the same(the key must be provided)
						 * for every part.
						*/
						const partOne = await multipartUpload.uploadPart(1, req.body, ssecKey);
						const obj = await multipartUpload.complete([partOne]);
						const headers = new Headers();
						obj.writeHttpMetadata(headers);
						return new Response(null, {
							headers,
							status: 201
						});
					}
					case 'PUT': {
						const obj = await env.BUCKET.put(filename, req.body, {
							httpMetadata: req.headers,
							ssecKey: SSEC_KEY,
						});
						const headers = new Headers();
						maybeObj.writeHttpMetadata(headers);
						return new Response(null, {
							headers,
							status: 201
						});
					}
					default: {
						return new Response("Method not allowed", {
							status: 405
						});
					}
				}
			}
		}
		```
	</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## S3-API

<Tabs>
	<TabItem label="@aws-sdk/client-s3" icon="seti:typescript">
		```typescript
		import {
			UploadPartCommand,
			PutObjectCommand, S3Client,
			CompleteMultipartUploadCommand,
			CreateMultipartUploadCommand,
			type UploadPartCommandOutput
		} from "@aws-sdk/client-s3";

    	const s3 = new S3Client({
    		endpoint: process.env.R2_ENDPOINT,
    		credentials: {
    			accessKeyId: process.env.R2_ACCESS_KEY_ID,
    			secretAccessKey: process.env.R2_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY,
    		},
    	});

    	const SSECustomerAlgorithm = "AES256";
    	const SSECustomerKey = process.env.R2_SSEC_KEY;
    	const SSECustomerKeyMD5 = process.env.R2_SSEC_KEY_MD5;

    	await s3.send(
    		new PutObjectCommand({
    			Bucket: "your-bucket",
    			Key: "single-part",
    			Body: "BeepBoop",
    			SSECustomerAlgorithm,
    			SSECustomerKey,
    			SSECustomerKeyMD5,
    		}),
    	);

    	const multi = await s3.send(
    		new CreateMultipartUploadCommand({
    			Bucket: "your-bucket",
    			Key: "multi-part",
    			SSECustomerAlgorithm,
    			SSECustomerKey,
    			SSECustomerKeyMD5,
    		}),
    	);
    	const UploadId = multi.UploadId;

    	const parts: UploadPartCommandOutput[] = [];

    	parts.push(
    		await s3.send(
    			new UploadPartCommand({
    				Bucket: "your-bucket",
    				Key: "multi-part",
    				UploadId,
    				// 	filledBuf()` generates some random data.
    				// Replace with a function/body of your choice.
    				Body: filledBuf(),
    				PartNumber: 1,
    				SSECustomerAlgorithm,
    				SSECustomerKey,
    				SSECustomerKeyMD5,
    			}),
    		),
    	);
    	parts.push(
    		await s3.send(
    			new UploadPartCommand({
    				Bucket: "your-bucket",
    				Key: "multi-part",
    				UploadId,
    				// 	filledBuf()` generates some random data.
    				// Replace with a function/body of your choice.
    				Body: filledBuf(),
    				PartNumber: 2,
    				SSECustomerAlgorithm,
    				SSECustomerKey,
    				SSECustomerKeyMD5,
    			}),
    		),
    	);
    	await s3.send(
    		new CompleteMultipartUploadCommand({
    			Bucket: "your-bucket",
    			Key: "multi-part",
    			UploadId,
    			MultipartUpload: {
    				Parts: parts.map(({ ETag }, PartNumber) => ({
    					ETag,
    					PartNumber: PartNumber + 1,
    				})),
    			},
    			SSECustomerAlgorithm,
    			SSECustomerKey,
    			SSECustomerKeyMD5,
    		}),
    	);

    	const HeadObjectOutput = await s3.send(
    		new HeadObjectCommand({
    			Bucket: "your-bucket",
    			Key: "multi-part",
    			SSECustomerAlgorithm,
    			SSECustomerKey,
    			SSECustomerKeyMD5,
    		}),
    	);

    	const GetObjectOutput = await s3.send(
    		new GetObjectCommand({
    			Bucket: "your-bucket",
    			Key: "single-part",
    			SSECustomerAlgorithm,
    			SSECustomerKey,
    			SSECustomerKeyMD5,
    		}),
    	);
    ```

  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

Commit message:

Ai descriptions util (#25736)
* Edits

* final files

* remove tab

* fix more tabs

* fixed steps

* fix

* final fix

* Update src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/tutorials/okta-u2f.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/tutorials/vnc-client-in-browser.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/r2/tutorials/cloudflare-access.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/pages/how-to/deploy-a-wordpress-site.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/pages/migrations/migrating-from-netlify.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/reference-architecture/design-guides/network-vpn-migration.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/ssl/keyless-ssl/hardware-security-modules/ibm-cloud-hsm.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/turnstile/tutorials/excluding-turnstile-from-e2e-tests.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* update

---------

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

src/content/docs/r2/examples/ssec.mdx, after:

---
title: Use SSE-C
pcx_content_type: tutorial
difficulty: Intermediate
reviewed: 2024-09-27
description: >-
  The following tutorial shows some snippets for how to use Server-Side Encryption with Customer-Provided Keys (SSE-C) on Cloudflare R2.
---

import { Tabs, TabItem } from "~/components";

The following tutorial shows some snippets for how to use Server-Side Encryption with Customer-Provided Keys (SSE-C) on R2.

## Before you begin

- When using SSE-C, make sure you store your encryption key(s) in a safe place. In the event you misplace them, Cloudflare will be unable to recover the body of any objects encrypted using those keys.
- While SSE-C does provide MD5 hashes, this hash can be used for identification of keys only. The MD5 hash is not used in the encryption process itself.

## Workers

<Tabs>
	<TabItem label="TypeScript" icon="seti:typescript">
		```typescript
		interface Environment {
			R2: R2Bucket
			/**
			 * In this example, your SSE-C is stored as a hexadecimal string (preferably a secret).
			 * The R2 API also supports providing an ArrayBuffer directly, if you want to generate/
			 * store your keys dynamically.
			*/
			SSEC_KEY: string
		}
		export default {
			async fetch(req: Request, env: Env) {
				const { SSEC_KEY, R2 } = env;
				const { pathname: filename } = new URL(req.url);
				switch(req.method) {
					case "GET": {
						const maybeObj = await env.BUCKET.get(filename, {
							onlyIf: req.headers,
							ssecKey: SSEC_KEY,
						});
						if(!maybeObj) {
							return new Response("Not Found", {
								status: 404
							});
						}
						const headers = new Headers();
						maybeObj.writeHttpMetadata(headers);
						return new Response(body, {
							headers
						});
					}
					case 'POST': {
						const multipartUpload = await env.BUCKET.createMultipartUpload(filename, {
							httpMetadata: req.headers,
							ssecKey: SSEC_KEY,
						});
						/**
						 * This example only provides a single-part "multipart" upload.
						 * For multiple parts, the process is the same(the key must be provided)
						 * for every part.
						*/
						const partOne = await multipartUpload.uploadPart(1, req.body, ssecKey);
						const obj = await multipartUpload.complete([partOne]);
						const headers = new Headers();
						obj.writeHttpMetadata(headers);
						return new Response(null, {
							headers,
							status: 201
						});
					}
					case 'PUT': {
						const obj = await env.BUCKET.put(filename, req.body, {
							httpMetadata: req.headers,
							ssecKey: SSEC_KEY,
						});
						const headers = new Headers();
						maybeObj.writeHttpMetadata(headers);
						return new Response(null, {
							headers,
							status: 201
						});
					}
					default: {
						return new Response("Method not allowed", {
							status: 405
						});
					}
				}
			}
		}
		```
	</TabItem>
	<TabItem label="JavaScript" icon="seti:javascript">
		```javascript
		/**
			 * In this example, your SSE-C is stored as a hexadecimal string(preferably a secret).
			 * The R2 API also supports providing an ArrayBuffer directly, if you want to generate/
			 * store your keys dynamically.
		*/
		export default {
			async fetch(req, env) {
				const { SSEC_KEY, R2 } = env;
				const { pathname: filename } = new URL(req.url);
				switch(req.method) {
					case "GET": {
						const maybeObj = await env.BUCKET.get(filename, {
							onlyIf: req.headers,
							ssecKey: SSEC_KEY,
						});
						if(!maybeObj) {
							return new Response("Not Found", {
								status: 404
							});
						}
						const headers = new Headers();
						maybeObj.writeHttpMetadata(headers);
						return new Response(body, {
							headers
						});
					}
					case 'POST': {
						const multipartUpload = await env.BUCKET.createMultipartUpload(filename, {
							httpMetadata: req.headers,
							ssecKey: SSEC_KEY,
						});
						/**
						 * This example only provides a single-part "multipart" upload.
						 * For multiple parts, the process is the same(the key must be provided)
						 * for every part.
						*/
						const partOne = await multipartUpload.uploadPart(1, req.body, ssecKey);
						const obj = await multipartUpload.complete([partOne]);
						const headers = new Headers();
						obj.writeHttpMetadata(headers);
						return new Response(null, {
							headers,
							status: 201
						});
					}
					case 'PUT': {
						const obj = await env.BUCKET.put(filename, req.body, {
							httpMetadata: req.headers,
							ssecKey: SSEC_KEY,
						});
						const headers = new Headers();
						maybeObj.writeHttpMetadata(headers);
						return new Response(null, {
							headers,
							status: 201
						});
					}
					default: {
						return new Response("Method not allowed", {
							status: 405
						});
					}
				}
			}
		}
		```
	</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## S3-API

<Tabs>
	<TabItem label="@aws-sdk/client-s3" icon="seti:typescript">
		```typescript
		import {
			UploadPartCommand,
			PutObjectCommand, S3Client,
			CompleteMultipartUploadCommand,
			CreateMultipartUploadCommand,
			type UploadPartCommandOutput
		} from "@aws-sdk/client-s3";

    	const s3 = new S3Client({
    		endpoint: process.env.R2_ENDPOINT,
    		credentials: {
    			accessKeyId: process.env.R2_ACCESS_KEY_ID,
    			secretAccessKey: process.env.R2_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY,
    		},
    	});

    	const SSECustomerAlgorithm = "AES256";
    	const SSECustomerKey = process.env.R2_SSEC_KEY;
    	const SSECustomerKeyMD5 = process.env.R2_SSEC_KEY_MD5;

    	await s3.send(
    		new PutObjectCommand({
    			Bucket: "your-bucket",
    			Key: "single-part",
    			Body: "BeepBoop",
    			SSECustomerAlgorithm,
    			SSECustomerKey,
    			SSECustomerKeyMD5,
    		}),
    	);

    	const multi = await s3.send(
    		new CreateMultipartUploadCommand({
    			Bucket: "your-bucket",
    			Key: "multi-part",
    			SSECustomerAlgorithm,
    			SSECustomerKey,
    			SSECustomerKeyMD5,
    		}),
    	);
    	const UploadId = multi.UploadId;

    	const parts: UploadPartCommandOutput[] = [];

    	parts.push(
    		await s3.send(
    			new UploadPartCommand({
    				Bucket: "your-bucket",
    				Key: "multi-part",
    				UploadId,
    				// 	filledBuf()` generates some random data.
    				// Replace with a function/body of your choice.
    				Body: filledBuf(),
    				PartNumber: 1,
    				SSECustomerAlgorithm,
    				SSECustomerKey,
    				SSECustomerKeyMD5,
    			}),
    		),
    	);
    	parts.push(
    		await s3.send(
    			new UploadPartCommand({
    				Bucket: "your-bucket",
    				Key: "multi-part",
    				UploadId,
    				// 	filledBuf()` generates some random data.
    				// Replace with a function/body of your choice.
    				Body: filledBuf(),
    				PartNumber: 2,
    				SSECustomerAlgorithm,
    				SSECustomerKey,
    				SSECustomerKeyMD5,
    			}),
    		),
    	);
    	await s3.send(
    		new CompleteMultipartUploadCommand({
    			Bucket: "your-bucket",
    			Key: "multi-part",
    			UploadId,
    			MultipartUpload: {
    				Parts: parts.map(({ ETag }, PartNumber) => ({
    					ETag,
    					PartNumber: PartNumber + 1,
    				})),
    			},
    			SSECustomerAlgorithm,
    			SSECustomerKey,
    			SSECustomerKeyMD5,
    		}),
    	);

    	const HeadObjectOutput = await s3.send(
    		new HeadObjectCommand({
    			Bucket: "your-bucket",
    			Key: "multi-part",
    			SSECustomerAlgorithm,
    			SSECustomerKey,
    			SSECustomerKeyMD5,
    		}),
    	);

    	const GetObjectOutput = await s3.send(
    		new GetObjectCommand({
    			Bucket: "your-bucket",
    			Key: "single-part",
    			SSECustomerAlgorithm,
    			SSECustomerKey,
    			SSECustomerKeyMD5,
    		}),
    	);
    ```

  </TabItem>

</Tabs>
