src/content/docs/analytics/analytics-integrations/datadog.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: tutorial
title: Datadog
sidebar:
  order: 98
---

This tutorial explains how to analyze Cloudflare metrics using the [Cloudflare Integration tile for Datadog](https://docs.datadoghq.com/integrations/cloudflare/).

## Overview

Before viewing the Cloudflare dashboard in Datadog, note that this integration:

- Is available to all Cloudflare customer plans (Free, Pro, Business and Enterprise)
- Is based on the Cloudflare Analytics API
- Provides Cloudflare web traffic and DNS metrics only
- Does not feature data coming from request logs stored in Cloudflare Logs

## Task 1 - Install the Cloudflare App

To install the Cloudflare App for Datadog:

1. Log in to **Datadog**.

2. Click the **Integrations** tab.

3. In the **search box**, start typing _Cloudflare_. The app tile should appear below the search box.
   ![Searching for Cloudflare App in the Datadog Integrations tab](~/assets/images/fundamentals/datadog/screenshots/datadog-integrations.png)

4. Click the **Cloudflare** tile to begin the installation.

5. Next, click **Configuration** and then complete the following:

   - **Account name**: (Optional) This can be any value. It has not impact on the site data pulled from Cloudflare.

   - **Email**: This value helps keep your account safe. We recommend creating a dedicated Cloudflare user for analytics with the [_Analytics_ role](/fundamentals/manage-members/roles/) (read-only). Note that the _Analytics_ role is available to Enterprise customers only.

   - **API Key**: Enter your Cloudflare Global API key. For details refer to [API Keys](/fundamentals/api/get-started/keys/).

6. Click **Install Integration**.
   ![Configuring and installing the Datadog integration](~/assets/images/fundamentals/datadog/screenshots/cloudflare-tile-datadog-fill-details.png)

The Cloudflare App for Datadog should be installed now and you can view the dashboard.

## Task 2 - View the dashboard

By default, the dashboard displays metrics for all sites in your Cloudflare account. Use the dashboard filters see metrics for a specific domain.

The dashboard displays the following metrics:

- **Threats** (threats by type, threats by country)
- **Requests** (total requests, cached requests, uncached requests, top countries by request, requests by IP class, top content types)
- **Bandwidth** (total bandwidth, encrypted and unencrypted traffic cached bandwidth, uncached bandwidth)
- **Caching** (Cache hit rate, request caching rate over time)
- **HTTP response status errors**
- **Page views**
- **Search Engine Bot Traffic**
- **DNS** (DNS queries, response time, top hostnames, queries by type, stale vs. uncached queries)

![Dashboard displaying metrics for a site on a Cloudflare account](~/assets/images/fundamentals/datadog/dashboards/cloudflare-dashboard-datadog.png)

Commit message:

Ai descriptions util (#25736)
* Edits

* final files

* remove tab

* fix more tabs

* fixed steps

* fix

* final fix

* Update src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/tutorials/okta-u2f.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/tutorials/vnc-client-in-browser.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/r2/tutorials/cloudflare-access.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/pages/how-to/deploy-a-wordpress-site.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/pages/migrations/migrating-from-netlify.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/reference-architecture/design-guides/network-vpn-migration.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/ssl/keyless-ssl/hardware-security-modules/ibm-cloud-hsm.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/turnstile/tutorials/excluding-turnstile-from-e2e-tests.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* update

---------

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

src/content/docs/analytics/analytics-integrations/datadog.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: tutorial
title: Datadog
sidebar:
  order: 98
description: >-
  This tutorial explains how to analyze Cloudflare metrics using the Cloudflare Integration tile for Datadog
---

This tutorial explains how to analyze Cloudflare metrics using the [Cloudflare Integration tile for Datadog](https://docs.datadoghq.com/integrations/cloudflare/).

## Overview

Before viewing the Cloudflare dashboard in Datadog, note that this integration:

- Is available to all Cloudflare customer plans (Free, Pro, Business and Enterprise)
- Is based on the Cloudflare Analytics API
- Provides Cloudflare web traffic and DNS metrics only
- Does not feature data coming from request logs stored in Cloudflare Logs

## Task 1 - Install the Cloudflare App

To install the Cloudflare App for Datadog:

1. Log in to **Datadog**.

2. Click the **Integrations** tab.

3. In the **search box**, start typing _Cloudflare_. The app tile should appear below the search box.
   ![Searching for Cloudflare App in the Datadog Integrations tab](~/assets/images/fundamentals/datadog/screenshots/datadog-integrations.png)

4. Click the **Cloudflare** tile to begin the installation.

5. Next, click **Configuration** and then complete the following:

   - **Account name**: (Optional) This can be any value. It has not impact on the site data pulled from Cloudflare.

   - **Email**: This value helps keep your account safe. We recommend creating a dedicated Cloudflare user for analytics with the [_Analytics_ role](/fundamentals/manage-members/roles/) (read-only). Note that the _Analytics_ role is available to Enterprise customers only.

   - **API Key**: Enter your Cloudflare Global API key. For details refer to [API Keys](/fundamentals/api/get-started/keys/).

6. Click **Install Integration**.
   ![Configuring and installing the Datadog integration](~/assets/images/fundamentals/datadog/screenshots/cloudflare-tile-datadog-fill-details.png)

The Cloudflare App for Datadog should be installed now and you can view the dashboard.

## Task 2 - View the dashboard

By default, the dashboard displays metrics for all sites in your Cloudflare account. Use the dashboard filters see metrics for a specific domain.

The dashboard displays the following metrics:

- **Threats** (threats by type, threats by country)
- **Requests** (total requests, cached requests, uncached requests, top countries by request, requests by IP class, top content types)
- **Bandwidth** (total bandwidth, encrypted and unencrypted traffic cached bandwidth, uncached bandwidth)
- **Caching** (Cache hit rate, request caching rate over time)
- **HTTP response status errors**
- **Page views**
- **Search Engine Bot Traffic**
- **DNS** (DNS queries, response time, top hostnames, queries by type, stale vs. uncached queries)

![Dashboard displaying metrics for a site on a Cloudflare account](~/assets/images/fundamentals/datadog/dashboards/cloudflare-dashboard-datadog.png)
