src/content/docs/workers/languages/python/packages/index.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: navigation
title: Packages
head:
  - tag: title
    content: Python packages supported in Cloudflare Workers
---

import { Render } from "~/components";

[Pywrangler](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-py?tab=readme-ov-file#pywrangler) is a CLI tool for managing packages and Python Workers.
It is meant as a wrapper for wrangler that sets up a full environment for you, including bundling your packages into
your worker bundle on deployment.

To get started, create a pyproject.toml file with the following contents:

```toml
[project]
name = "YourProjectName"
version = "0.1.0"
description = "Add your description here"
requires-python = ">=3.12"
dependencies = [
    "fastapi"
]

[dependency-groups]
dev = ["workers-py"]
```

The above will allow your worker to depend on the [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/) package.

To run the worker locally:

```
uv run pywrangler dev
```

To deploy your worker:

```
uv run pywrangler deploy
```

Your dependencies will get bundled with your worker automatically on deployment.

The `pywrangler` CLI also supports all commands supported by the `wrangler` tool, for the full list of commands run `uv run pywrangler --help`.

## HTTP Client Libraries

Only HTTP libraries that are able to make requests asynchronously are supported. Currently, these include [`aiohttp`](https://docs.aiohttp.org/en/stable/index.html) and [`httpx`](https://www.python-httpx.org/). You can also use the [`fetch()` API](/workers/runtime-apis/fetch/) from JavaScript, using Python Workers' [foreign function interface](/workers/languages/python/ffi) to make HTTP requests.

Commit message:

Add packages info to Python docs (#25474)

src/content/docs/workers/languages/python/packages/index.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: navigation
title: Packages
head:
  - tag: title
    content: Python packages supported in Cloudflare Workers
---

import { Render } from "~/components";

[Pywrangler](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-py?tab=readme-ov-file#pywrangler) is a CLI tool for managing packages and Python Workers.
It is meant as a wrapper for wrangler that sets up a full environment for you, including bundling your packages into
your worker bundle on deployment.

To get started, create a pyproject.toml file with the following contents:

```toml
[project]
name = "YourProjectName"
version = "0.1.0"
description = "Add your description here"
requires-python = ">=3.12"
dependencies = [
    "fastapi"
]

[dependency-groups]
dev = ["workers-py"]
```

The above will allow your worker to depend on the [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/) package.

To run the worker locally:

```
uv run pywrangler dev
```

To deploy your worker:

```
uv run pywrangler deploy
```

Your dependencies will get bundled with your worker automatically on deployment.

The `pywrangler` CLI also supports all commands supported by the `wrangler` tool, for the full list of commands run `uv run pywrangler --help`.

## Supported Libraries

Python Workers support pure Python packages on [PyPI](https://pypi.org/),
as well as [packages that are included in Pyodide](https://pyodide.org/en/stable/usage/packages-in-pyodide.html).

If you would like to use a package that is not pure Python and not yet supported in Pyodide, request support via
the [Python Packages Discussions](https://github.com/cloudflare/workerd/discussions/categories/python-packages) on the
Cloudflare Workers Runtime GitHub repository.

## HTTP Client Libraries

Only HTTP libraries that are able to make requests asynchronously are supported. Currently, these include [`aiohttp`](https://docs.aiohttp.org/en/stable/index.html) and [`httpx`](https://www.python-httpx.org/). You can also use the [`fetch()` API](/workers/runtime-apis/fetch/) from JavaScript, using Python Workers' [foreign function interface](/workers/languages/python/ffi) to make HTTP requests.
