src/content/docs/ssl/client-certificates/byo-ca.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Bring your own CA for mTLS
sidebar:
  order: 6
head: []
description: Cloudflare mTLS now supports client certificates that have not been
  issued by Cloudflare CA. Learn how you can bring your own CA and use it with
  Cloudflare mTLS.
---

import { Render, APIRequest, Tabs, TabItem } from "~/components";

This page explains how you can manage client certificates that have not been issued by Cloudflare CA. For a broader overview, refer to the [mTLS at Cloudflare learning path](/learning-paths/mtls/concepts/).

Bring your own CA (BYOCA) is especially useful if you already have mTLS implemented and [client certificates are already installed](/ssl/client-certificates/#how-it-works) on devices.

## Availability

- Currently, you can only manage your uploaded CA via API, and the hostname associations are **not** reflected on the [dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/:zone/ssl-tls/client-certificates/).
- This process is only available on Enterprise accounts.
- Each Enterprise account can upload up to five CAs. This quota does not apply to CAs uploaded through [Cloudflare Access](/cloudflare-one/identity/devices/access-integrations/mutual-tls-authentication/).

## CA certificate requirements

<Render file="byo-ca-mtls-cert-requirements" product="ssl" />

:::note
Uploading the CA private key is only required if you wish to use [Zero Trust's block page](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/user-side-certificates/custom-certificate/). For more context on how mTLS works, refer to our [Learning Center](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/access-management/what-is-mutual-tls/).
:::

## Set up mTLS with your CA

1. Use the [Upload mTLS certificate endpoint](/api/resources/mtls_certificates/methods/create/) to upload the CA root certificate.

- `ca` boolean required
  - Set to `true` to indicate that the certificate is a CA certificate.

- `certificates` string required
  - Insert content from the `.pem` file associated with the CA certificate, formatted as a single string with `\n` replacing the line breaks.

- `name` string optional
  - Indicate a unique name for your CA certificate.

2. Take note of the certificate ID (`id`) that is returned in the API response.
3. Use the [Replace Hostname Associations endpoint](/api/resources/certificate_authorities/subresources/hostname_associations/methods/update/) to enable mTLS in each hostname that should use the CA for mTLS validation. Use the following parameters:

- `hostnames` array required
  - List the hostnames that will be using the CA for client certificate validation.

    :::caution

    Submitting an empty array will remove all hostnames associations.
    :::

- `mtls_certificate_id` string required
  - Indicate the certificate ID obtained from the previous step.

    :::caution

    If no `mtls_certificate_id` is provided, the action will be performed against a Cloudflare Managed CA.
    :::

4. (Optional) Since this process is API-only, and hostnames that use your uploaded CA certificate **are not** listed on the dashboard, you can make a [GET request](#list-ca-hostname-associations) to confirm the CA hostname associations.

5. Create a custom rule to enforce client certificate validation.
   You can do this [via the dashboard](/api-shield/security/mtls/configure/) or [via API](/waf/custom-rules/create-api/).

```txt
  "expression": "(http.host in {\"<HOSTNAME_1>\" \"<HOSTNAME_2>\"} and not cf.tls_client_auth.cert_verified)",
  "action": "block"
```

### Multiple CAs for one hostname

There can be multiple CAs (Cloudflare-managed or BYOCA) associated with the same hostname. For BYOCA certificates, the most recently deployed certificate will be prioritized.

If you wish to remove the association from the Cloudflare-managed certificate and only use your BYOCA certificate(s):

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com) and select your account and domain.
2. Go to **SSL/TLS** > **Client Certificates**.
3. On the **Hosts** section of the **Client Certificates** card, select **Edit**.
4. Select the cross next to the hostname you want to remove. The list of hostname associations will be updated.
5. Select **Save** to confirm.

</TabItem> <TabItem label="API">

1. [List the hostname associations](/api/resources/certificate_authorities/subresources/hostname_associations/methods/get/) **without** the `mtls_certificate_id` parameter.

<APIRequest
	path="/zones/{zone_id}/certificate_authorities/hostname_associations"
	method="GET"
/>

2. Copy the `hostnames` array returned by the API and update it, removing the hostname that should no longer use the Cloudflare-managed CA.
3. Use the [Replace Hostname Associations endpoint](/api/resources/certificate_authorities/subresources/hostname_associations/methods/update/) **without** the `mtls_certificate_id` parameter to perform the action against the Cloudflare-managed CA. For `hostnames` use the list from the previous step.

<APIRequest
	path="/zones/{zone_id}/certificate_authorities/hostname_associations"
	method="PUT"
	json={{
		hostnames: ["<UPDATED_HOSTNAME_ASSOCIATIONS>"],
	}}
/>

</TabItem> </Tabs>

## Delete an uploaded CA

If you want to remove a CA that you have previously uploaded, you must first remove any hostname associations that it has.

1. Make a request to the [Replace Hostname Associations endpoint](/api/resources/certificate_authorities/subresources/hostname_associations/methods/update/), with an empty array for `hostnames` and specifying your CA certificate ID in `mtls_certificate_id`:

```txt
  "hostnames": [],
  "mtls_certificate_id": "<CERTIFICATE_ID>"
```

2. Use the [Delete mTLS certificate endpoint](/api/resources/mtls_certificates/methods/delete/) to delete the certificate.

## List CA hostname associations

You can also use the [API](/api/resources/certificate_authorities/subresources/hostname_associations/methods/get/) to list the hostname associations. Make sure you include the query parameter `mtls_certificate_id`, where `mtls_certificate_id` is the certificate ID of the uploaded CA (step 2 above).

<APIRequest
	path="/zones/{zone_id}/certificate_authorities/hostname_associations"
	method="GET"
	parameters={{
		mtls_certificate_id: "ID_FROM_STEP_2",
	}}
/>

Commit message:

[SSL, CF4SaaS] Clarify CA cert is validated and CNAME config with mTLS (#25667)
* Explicitly call out that uploaded CA certs are validated

* Add note about where to enforce mTLS when CNAME is in place

* Improve excessive passive voice

src/content/docs/ssl/client-certificates/byo-ca.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Bring your own CA for mTLS
sidebar:
  order: 6
head: []
description: Cloudflare mTLS now supports client certificates that have not been
  issued by Cloudflare CA. Learn how you can bring your own CA and use it with
  Cloudflare mTLS.
---

import { Render, APIRequest, Tabs, TabItem } from "~/components";

This page explains how you can manage client certificates that have not been issued by Cloudflare CA. For a broader overview, refer to the [mTLS at Cloudflare learning path](/learning-paths/mtls/concepts/).

Bring your own CA (BYOCA) is especially useful if you already have mTLS implemented and [client certificates are already installed](/ssl/client-certificates/#how-it-works) on devices.

## Availability

- Currently, you can only manage your uploaded CA via API, and the hostname associations are **not** reflected on the [dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/?to=/:account/:zone/ssl-tls/client-certificates/).
- This process is only available on Enterprise accounts.
- Each Enterprise account can upload up to five CAs. This quota does not apply to CAs uploaded through [Cloudflare Access](/cloudflare-one/identity/devices/access-integrations/mutual-tls-authentication/).

## CA certificate requirements

When you upload your CA, Cloudflare validates the certificate according to certain requirements.

<Render file="byo-ca-mtls-cert-requirements" product="ssl" />

:::note
Uploading the CA private key is only required if you wish to use [Zero Trust's block page](/cloudflare-one/connections/connect-devices/user-side-certificates/custom-certificate/). For more context on how mTLS works, refer to our [Learning Center](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/access-management/what-is-mutual-tls/).
:::

## Set up mTLS with your CA

1. Use the [Upload mTLS certificate endpoint](/api/resources/mtls_certificates/methods/create/) to upload the CA root certificate.

- `ca` boolean required
  - Set to `true` to indicate that the certificate is a CA certificate.

- `certificates` string required
  - Insert content from the `.pem` file associated with the CA certificate, formatted as a single string with `\n` replacing the line breaks.

- `name` string optional
  - Indicate a unique name for your CA certificate.

2. Take note of the certificate ID (`id`) that is returned in the API response.
3. Use the [Replace Hostname Associations endpoint](/api/resources/certificate_authorities/subresources/hostname_associations/methods/update/) to enable mTLS in each hostname that should use the CA for mTLS validation. Use the following parameters:

- `hostnames` array required
  - List the hostnames that will be using the CA for client certificate validation.

    :::caution

    Submitting an empty array will remove all hostnames associations.
    :::

- `mtls_certificate_id` string required
  - Indicate the certificate ID obtained from the previous step.

    :::caution

    If no `mtls_certificate_id` is provided, the action will be performed against a Cloudflare Managed CA.
    :::

4. (Optional) Since this process is API-only, and hostnames that use your uploaded CA certificate **are not** listed on the dashboard, you can make a [GET request](#list-ca-hostname-associations) to confirm the CA hostname associations.

5. Create a custom rule to enforce client certificate validation.
   You can do this [via the dashboard](/api-shield/security/mtls/configure/) or [via API](/waf/custom-rules/create-api/).

```txt
  "expression": "(http.host in {\"<HOSTNAME_1>\" \"<HOSTNAME_2>\"} and not cf.tls_client_auth.cert_verified)",
  "action": "block"
```

:::note
When using CNAME, enforce mTLS on the specific hostname where it should be checked. It is not enough to have it set on the CNAME target.
:::

### Multiple CAs for one hostname

There can be multiple CAs (Cloudflare-managed or BYOCA) associated with the same hostname. For BYOCA certificates, the most recently deployed certificate will be prioritized.

If you wish to remove the association from the Cloudflare-managed certificate and only use your BYOCA certificate(s):

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="Dashboard">

1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com) and select your account and domain.
2. Go to **SSL/TLS** > **Client Certificates**.
3. On the **Hosts** section of the **Client Certificates** card, select **Edit**.
4. Select the cross next to the hostname you want to remove. The list of hostname associations will be updated.
5. Select **Save** to confirm.

</TabItem> <TabItem label="API">

1. [List the hostname associations](/api/resources/certificate_authorities/subresources/hostname_associations/methods/get/) **without** the `mtls_certificate_id` parameter.

<APIRequest
	path="/zones/{zone_id}/certificate_authorities/hostname_associations"
	method="GET"
/>

2. Copy the `hostnames` array returned by the API and update it, removing the hostname that should no longer use the Cloudflare-managed CA.
3. Use the [Replace Hostname Associations endpoint](/api/resources/certificate_authorities/subresources/hostname_associations/methods/update/) **without** the `mtls_certificate_id` parameter to perform the action against the Cloudflare-managed CA. For `hostnames` use the list from the previous step.

<APIRequest
	path="/zones/{zone_id}/certificate_authorities/hostname_associations"
	method="PUT"
	json={{
		hostnames: ["<UPDATED_HOSTNAME_ASSOCIATIONS>"],
	}}
/>

</TabItem> </Tabs>

## Delete an uploaded CA

If you want to remove a CA that you have previously uploaded, you must first remove any hostname associations that it has.

1. Make a request to the [Replace Hostname Associations endpoint](/api/resources/certificate_authorities/subresources/hostname_associations/methods/update/), with an empty array for `hostnames` and specifying your CA certificate ID in `mtls_certificate_id`:

```txt
  "hostnames": [],
  "mtls_certificate_id": "<CERTIFICATE_ID>"
```

2. Use the [Delete mTLS certificate endpoint](/api/resources/mtls_certificates/methods/delete/) to delete the certificate.

## List CA hostname associations

You can also use the [API](/api/resources/certificate_authorities/subresources/hostname_associations/methods/get/) to list the hostname associations. Make sure you include the query parameter `mtls_certificate_id`, where `mtls_certificate_id` is the certificate ID of the uploaded CA (step 2 above).

<APIRequest
	path="/zones/{zone_id}/certificate_authorities/hostname_associations"
	method="GET"
	parameters={{
		mtls_certificate_id: "ID_FROM_STEP_2",
	}}
/>
