src/content/partials/networking-services/analytics/overview.mdx, before:

---
params:
  - magicWord?
  - productName
  - analyticsAnchorHeading
  - networkAnalyticsURL
  - traceRoutes
  - graphQlTunnelBandwidthURL
  - graphQlTunnelHealthURL
  - siteAnalyticsURL?
---

import { AnchorHeading, Markdown } from "~/components";

{props.productName} customers can follow these troubleshooting steps to gather information at the beginning of a troubleshooting process, then move to more detailed network data collection and analysis to identify the root cause of a problem.


{ (props.magicWord === "Magic WAN" || props.magicWord === "WAN Tunnels") && (
  <>
	<Markdown
		text="- View your entire network at a glance in [Network overview (beta)](#network-overview-beta)"
		inline={false}
	/>
  </>
  )
}
- Analyze network traffic over time in <a href={props.analyticsAnchorHeading}>{props.productName} Network Analytics</a>
- Perform more detailed troubleshooting with:
  - [Traceroutes](#traceroutes)
  - [Packet captures](#packet-captures)

{ (props.magicWord === "Magic WAN" || props.magicWord === "WAN Tunnels") && (
  <>
    <AnchorHeading title="Network overview (beta)" depth={2} />
		<Markdown
		text={`
		${props.productName} Network overview (beta) shows the connectivity status and traffic analytics for all ${props.productName} sites. Use it when you receive an alert, need to begin the ${props.productName} troubleshooting process, or are performing routine monitoring.

		Refer to [${props.magicWord === "WAN Tunnels" ? "Network visibility" : "Network overview (beta)"}](${props.siteAnalyticsURL}) to learn more.
		`}
		inline={false}
		/>
  </>
  )
}

<AnchorHeading depth={2} title={`${props.productName} Network Analytics`} />

Network Analytics provides detailed analytics on {props.productName} traffic over time. Customers can filter data on specific traffic characteristics and view traffic trends over time.

Refer to <a href={props.networkAnalyticsURL}>{props.productName} Network Analytics</a> to learn more.

## Traceroutes

Traceroutes provide a hop-by-hop breakdown of the Internet path network traffic follows from Cloudflare's network to a customer's network.

Refer to <a href={props.traceRoutes}>Traceroutes</a> to learn more.

## Packet captures

Packet captures allow customers to analyze the raw packet data they send to and receive from Cloudflare's network.

Refer to [packet captures](/magic-firewall/packet-captures/) to learn more.

## Query analytics with GraphQL

GraphQL Analytics provides a GraphQL API that customers can query to receive raw JSON data for their {props.productName} traffic analytics. Customers can ingest this data into a SIEM or other tool for further analysis.

- <a href={props.graphQlTunnelBandwidthURL}>Querying {props.productName} tunnel bandwidth analytics with GraphQL</a>
- <a href={props.graphQlTunnelHealthURL}>Querying {props.productName} tunnel health check results with GraphQL</a>

Commit message:

[MT] General improvements (#27202)
* refined text

* refined text

* rewmoved vars

* refined text

* refined text

* refined text

* refined text

* refined text

* refined text

* refined text

* refined text

* refined text

* refined text

* refined text

* refined text

* refined text

* refined text

* refined text

* refined text

* refined text

* refined text

* refined text

* refined text

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: ranbel <101146722+ranbel@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: ranbel <101146722+ranbel@users.noreply.github.com>

src/content/partials/networking-services/analytics/overview.mdx, after:

---
params:
  - magicWord?
  - productName
  - networkAnalyticsURL
  - traceRoutes
  - graphQlTunnelBandwidthURL
  - graphQlTunnelHealthURL
  - siteAnalyticsURL?
---

import { AnchorHeading, Markdown } from "~/components";

Use these troubleshooting options to gather information at the start of your troubleshooting process. Then, use more detailed network data collection and analysis to identify the root cause.

<Markdown
	text={`
		${props.magicWord === "Magic WAN" || props.magicWord === "WAN Tunnels" ? "- View your entire network at a glance in [Network overview (beta)](#network-overview-beta)" : ""}
		- Analyze network traffic over time in [Network Analytics](#network-analytics)
		- Perform more detailed troubleshooting with:
		  - [Traceroutes](#traceroutes)
		  - [Packet captures](#packet-captures)
	`}
	inline={false}
/>

{ (props.magicWord === "Magic WAN" || props.magicWord === "WAN Tunnels") && (
  <>
		<AnchorHeading title="Network overview (beta)" depth={2} slug="network-overview-beta" />
		<Markdown
		text={`
		Network overview (beta) shows the connectivity status and traffic analytics for all Magic WAN sites. Use it when you receive an alert, start troubleshooting, or perform routine monitoring.

		Refer to [${props.magicWord === "WAN Tunnels" ? "Network health" : "Network overview (beta)"}](${props.siteAnalyticsURL}) to learn more.
		`}
		inline={false}
		/>
  </>
  )
}

<AnchorHeading depth={2} title="Network Analytics" />

Network Analytics provides detailed analytics on your {props.productName} traffic over time. You can filter data by traffic characteristics and review traffic trends over time.

Refer to <a href={props.networkAnalyticsURL}>{props.productName} Network Analytics</a> to learn more.

## Traceroutes

Traceroutes provide a hop-by-hop breakdown of the Internet path that network traffic follows from Cloudflare's network to your network.

Refer to <a href={props.traceRoutes}>Traceroutes</a> to learn more.

## Packet captures

Packet captures allow you to analyze the raw packet data your network sends to and receives from Cloudflare's network.

Refer to [packet captures](/magic-firewall/packet-captures/) to learn more.

## Query analytics with GraphQL

GraphQL Analytics provides a GraphQL API you can query to receive raw JSON data for your {props.productName} traffic analytics. You can ingest this data into a security information and event management (SIEM) tool or another platform for further analysis.

- <a href={props.graphQlTunnelBandwidthURL}>Querying {props.productName} tunnel bandwidth analytics with GraphQL</a>
- <a href={props.graphQlTunnelHealthURL}>Querying {props.productName} tunnel health check results with GraphQL</a>
