src/content/partials/networking-services/analytics/site-analytics.mdx, before:

---
params:
  - instructions?
  - magicWord
  - productName
  - networkOverviewPageName
  - magicTunnelHcsURL
  - setGeoCoordinatesURL
---



import { Details, Markdown } from "~/components"

After adding your sites, the {props.networkOverviewPageName} section of the dashboard provides a summary of the connectivity status and traffic analytics for all your sites. This is a great place to start if you receive a {props.productName} alert, need to begin the troubleshooting process, or are performing routine monitoring. <Markdown text={props.instructions} />

{props.networkOverviewPageName} has the following data types available:

<Details header="Geographic map summary">
	- [Aggregate {props.productName} site health](#site-health)
	- [{props.productName} availability status for sites](#no-status-available)
	- [{props.productName} site geographic location](#no-location-set)
</Details>

<Details header={`${props.productName} site data table`}>
	- Site Name
	- Site Health
	- Site Tunnel Names
	- Site Tunnel Statuses
	- Site Traffic Sent
	- Site Traffic Received
</Details>

<Details header={`${props.productName} site data`}>
	- Traffic Sent by Tunnel
	- Traffic Received by Tunnel
</Details>

To start using {props.productName} site analytics:

{ props.magicWord === "WAN Tunnels" ? (
	<>
	<Markdown
		text={`
		1. Log in to [Cloudflare One](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/).
		2. Go to **Insights** > **${props.networkOverviewPageName}**.
		`}
		inline={false}
	/>
	</>
) : (
	<>
	<Markdown
		text={`
		1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/) and select your account.
		2. Select **Magic WAN** > **${props.networkOverviewPageName}**.
		`}
		inline={false}
	/>
	</>
)
}

You will have access to an overview map with all your active sites, and any alerts for sites that are unhealthy or have no status available to them.

Review the topics below to learn more about the options available to you.

### Network map and traffic overview

The network map section shows all the sites configured with {props.productName}. At a glance, you can check:

- How many active sites you have
- Location for sites in a map (if you set up their geographic location)
- Sites that are healthy or unhealthy
- Sites that have no status available
- Sites that have no location set

Just below the map, Traffic overview shows a more granular list of your sites and their status.

#### Site health

Sites can be healthy or unhealthy, and {props.productName} uses this information to route traffic. Refer to [Set thresholds for site health](#set-thresholds-for-site-health) to learn more about this topic.

#### No status available

The status of a site refers to its health. If your sites show a **No status available** message, this means you did not configure your alert settings when creating your site. Refer to <a href={props.magicTunnelHcsURL}>Configure Magic Tunnel health alerts</a> to learn how to create an alert for your site.

#### No location set

The dashboard shows you the number of sites with no location set, meaning sites for which you did not set up a geographic location. To add a location to a site, find the site you want to add location to, and select **no location set** to edit its location settings. Refer to <a href={props.setGeoCoordinatesURL}>Set geographic coordinates</a> for more information.


### Traffic overview

Traffic overview aggregates all {props.productName} sites configured in your account. Here, you can check at-a-glance information about each site like:

- Site status
- Traffic sent and received

Select one of your sites to have access to a more detailed view of its traffic, including traffic by tunnel.

Commit message:

[Magic] Docs cleanup  (#26285)
* updated links

* updated urls

* removed vars and hardcoded links

* removed vars

* removed wan tunnels glossary

* hardcoded magic wan

* hardcoded mfirewall

* updated url

* vars

* moved out of cond

* added var

* refined text

* refined text

* refined text

* corrected step names

* corrected

* refined steps

* corrected steps

* removed unecessary vars

* virtual comment

* removed unnecessary var

* uncessesary var

* refined step

* removed extra var

* removed var

* removed var

* removed vars

* refined text

* removed vars

* corrected steps

* refined

* removed vars

* refined text

* corrected links

* refined step

* refined steps

* refined steps

* refined steps

* refined steps

* hardcoded params

* removed var

* refined step

* removed vars

* removed vars

* removed vars

* removed vars

* removed vars

* removed vars

* removed vars

* removed var

* removed var

* removed vars

* fix link

* corrected link

* removed var

* removed vars

* corrected steps

* refined text

* markdown list

* refined step

* refined vars

* refined vars

* refined steps

* refined steps

* refined steps

* removed var

* corrected link

* hardcoded var

* refined logic

* removed var

* removed var

* removed var

* corrected link

* corrected links

* removed var

* simplified logic

* corrected link

* hardcoded name

* removed var

* hardcoded name

* hardcoded name

* refactored partial

* consolidaded partials

* removed vars

* hardcoded name

* folder name

* folder name

* cf1

src/content/partials/networking-services/analytics/site-analytics.mdx, after:

---
params:
  - instructions?
  - magicWord
  - networkOverviewPageName
  - magicTunnelHcsURL
  - setGeoCoordinatesURL
---



import { Details, Markdown } from "~/components"

After adding your sites, the {props.networkOverviewPageName} section of the dashboard provides a summary of the connectivity status and traffic analytics for all your sites. This is a great place to start if you receive a Magic WAN alert, need to begin the troubleshooting process, or are performing routine monitoring. <Markdown text={props.instructions} />

{props.networkOverviewPageName} has the following data types available:

<Details header="Geographic map summary">
	- [Aggregate Magic WAN site health](#site-health)
	- [Magic WAN availability status for sites](#no-status-available)
	- [Magic WAN site geographic location](#no-location-set)
</Details>

<Details header="Magic WAN site data table">
	- Site Name
	- Site Health
	- Site Tunnel Names
	- Site Tunnel Statuses
	- Site Traffic Sent
	- Site Traffic Received
</Details>

<Details header="Magic WAN site data">
	- Traffic Sent by Tunnel
	- Traffic Received by Tunnel
</Details>

To start using Magic WAN site analytics:

{ props.magicWord === "WAN Tunnels" ? (
	<>
	<Markdown
		text={`
		1. Log in to [Cloudflare One](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/).
		2. Go to **Insights** > **${props.networkOverviewPageName}**.
		`}
		inline={false}
	/>
	</>
) : (
	<>
	<Markdown
		text={`
		1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/) and select your account.
		2. Select **Magic WAN** > **${props.networkOverviewPageName}**.
		`}
		inline={false}
	/>
	</>
)
}

You will have access to an overview map with all your active sites, and any alerts for sites that are unhealthy or have no status available to them.

Review the topics below to learn more about the options available to you.

### Network map and traffic overview

The network map section shows all the sites configured with Magic WAN. At a glance, you can check:

- How many active sites you have
- Location for sites in a map (if you set up their geographic location)
- Sites that are healthy or unhealthy
- Sites that have no status available
- Sites that have no location set

Just below the map, Traffic overview shows a more granular list of your sites and their status.

#### Site health

Sites can be healthy or unhealthy, and Magic WAN uses this information to route traffic. Refer to [Set thresholds for site health](#set-thresholds-for-site-health) to learn more about this topic.

#### No status available

The status of a site refers to its health. If your sites show a **No status available** message, this means you did not configure your alert settings when creating your site. Refer to <a href={props.magicTunnelHcsURL}>Configure Magic Tunnel health alerts</a> to learn how to create an alert for your site.

#### No location set

The dashboard shows you the number of sites with no location set, meaning sites for which you did not set up a geographic location. To add a location to a site, find the site you want to add location to, and select **no location set** to edit its location settings. Refer to <a href={props.setGeoCoordinatesURL}>Set geographic coordinates</a> for more information.


### Traffic overview

Traffic overview aggregates all Magic WAN sites configured in your account. Here, you can check at-a-glance information about each site like:

- Site status
- Traffic sent and received

Select one of your sites to have access to a more detailed view of its traffic, including traffic by tunnel.
