src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/email-security/setup/post-delivery-deployment/bcc-journaling/journaling-setup/m365-journaling.mdx, before:

---
title: Microsoft 365 journaling setup
pcx_content_type: how-to
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

import { GlossaryTooltip, Render } from "~/components";

When you receive an email, the email lands on your Microsoft 365 inbox, and then Email security receives a copy of that email. The following email flow shows how this works:

![Email flow when setting up Microsoft 365 with Email security.](~/assets/images/email-security/deployment/api-setup/journaling/Email_Security_MS365_Journaling_Diagram.png)

To enable Microsoft 365 journaling deployment:

1. Log in to [Cloudflare One](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/) > **Email security**.
2. Select **Overview**. If you have not purchased Email security, select **Contact Sales**. Otherwise, select **Set up** > **BCC/Journaling**.
3. Select **Integrate with MS** > **Authorize**.
4. Continue with [Integrate with Microsoft 365](/cloudflare-one/email-security/setup/post-delivery-deployment/bcc-journaling/journaling-setup/m365-journaling/#1-integrate-with-microsoft-365) to connect your Microsoft integration.

## 1. Integrate with Microsoft 365

To integrate with Microsoft 365:

1. **Name integration**: Add your integration name, then select **Continue**.
2. **Authorize integration**:
   - Select **Authorize**. Selecting **Authorize** will take you to the **Microsoft Sign in** page where you will have to enter your email address.
   - Once you enter your email address, select **Next**.
   - After selecting **Next**, the dashboard will show you a dialog box with a list of requested permissions. Select **Accept to authorize Email security**. Upon authorization, you will be redirected to a page where you can review details and enroll the integration.
3. **Review details**: Review your integration details, then:
   - Select **Complete Email security set up** where you will be able to connect your domains and configure auto-moves.
   - Select **Continue to Email security**.

Continue with [Connect your domains](#connect-your-domains) for the next steps.

### Connect your domains

On the **Set up Email security** page:

1. **Connect domains**: Select at least one domain. Then, select **Continue**.
2. (**Optional**) **Add manual domains**: Select **Add domain name** to manually enter additional domains. Then, select **Continue**.
3. (**Optional**) **Adjust hop count**: Enter the number of <GlossaryTooltip term="Hops">hops</GlossaryTooltip>. Then, select **Continue**.
4. (**Optional**, select **Skip for now** to skip this step) **Move messages**: Refer to [Auto-moves](/cloudflare-one/email-security/settings/auto-moves/) to configure auto-moves. Then, select **Continue**.
5. **Select your processing location**: Configure where you want Cloudflare to process your email. **Global** will be the default option. If you choose **Global**, `<account tag>@CF-emailsecurity.com` will be your regional service address. Once you have chosen your processing location, select **Continue**.
6. **Review details**: Review your connected domains and service addresses. Then, select **Go to domains.**

Your domains are now added successfully.

To view your connected domains:

1. Go to **Settings**.
2. Locate your domain, select the three dots > **View domain**. Selecting **View domain** will display information about your domain.

## 2. Configure journal rule

1. Log in to the [Microsoft Purview compliance portal](https://compliance.microsoft.com/homepage).

2. On the sidebar, go to **Settings** (the gear icon) > **Data Lifecycle Management** > **Exchange (legacy)**.

3. In **Send undeliverable journal reports to** enter the email address of a valid user account. Note that you cannot use a team or group address. Select **Save** once you entered the email address.

4. On the sidebar, go to **Solutions** > **Data Lifecycle Management** > **Exchange (legacy)**.

5. Select **Journal rules**.

6. Select **New rule** to configure a journaling rule, and configure it as follows:
   - **Send journal reports to**: This is the address you copied and pasted in step 5 of [Connect your domains](/cloudflare-one/email-security/setup/post-delivery-deployment/bcc-journaling/journaling-setup/m365-journaling/#connect-your-domains).
   - **Journal rule name**: `Journal Messages to Email security`
   - **Journal messages sent or received from**: _Everyone_
   - **Type of message to journal**: _External messages only_

7. Select **Next**.

8. Verify the information is correct, and select **Submit** > **Done**.

Once saved, the rule is automatically active. However, it may take a few minutes for the configuration to propagate and start pushing messages to Email security. After it propagates, you can [monitor your inbox](/cloudflare-one/email-security/monitoring/) in the Cloudflare dashboard to check the number of messages processed. This number will grow as journaled messages are sent to Email security from your Exchange server.

<Render
	file="email-security/post-verification-setup"
	product="cloudflare-one"
/>

## Next steps

<Render file="email-security/enable-logs" product="cloudflare-one" />

Commit message:

[Email security] Add high-level overview (#26481)

src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/email-security/setup/post-delivery-deployment/bcc-journaling/journaling-setup/m365-journaling.mdx, after:

---
title: Microsoft 365 journaling setup
pcx_content_type: how-to
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

import { GlossaryTooltip, Render } from "~/components";

Microsoft 365 journaling is a post-delivery setup method that ensures a copy of every incoming and outgoing email is forwarded to Cloudflare for analysis. When you create a journal rule in the Microsoft Purview compliance portal, Cloudflare can scan messages that have already landed in your inbox.

The following diagram shows how this works:

![Email flow when setting up Microsoft 365 with Email security.](~/assets/images/email-security/deployment/api-setup/journaling/Email_Security_MS365_Journaling_Diagram.png)

To enable Microsoft 365 journaling deployment:

1. Log in to [Cloudflare One](https://one.dash.cloudflare.com/) > **Email security**.
2. Select **Overview**. If you have not purchased Email security, select **Contact Sales**. Otherwise, select **Set up** > **BCC/Journaling**.
3. Select **Integrate with MS** > **Authorize**.
4. Continue with [Integrate with Microsoft 365](/cloudflare-one/email-security/setup/post-delivery-deployment/bcc-journaling/journaling-setup/m365-journaling/#1-integrate-with-microsoft-365) to connect your Microsoft integration.

## 1. Integrate with Microsoft 365

To integrate with Microsoft 365:

1. **Name integration**: Add your integration name, then select **Continue**.
2. **Authorize integration**:
   - Select **Authorize**. Selecting **Authorize** will take you to the **Microsoft Sign in** page where you will have to enter your email address.
   - Once you enter your email address, select **Next**.
   - After selecting **Next**, the dashboard will show you a dialog box with a list of requested permissions. Select **Accept to authorize Email security**. Upon authorization, you will be redirected to a page where you can review details and enroll the integration.
3. **Review details**: Review your integration details, then:
   - Select **Complete Email security set up** where you will be able to connect your domains and configure auto-moves.
   - Select **Continue to Email security**.

Continue with [Connect your domains](#connect-your-domains) for the next steps.

### Connect your domains

On the **Set up Email security** page:

1. **Connect domains**: Select at least one domain. Then, select **Continue**.
2. (**Optional**) **Add manual domains**: Select **Add domain name** to manually enter additional domains. Then, select **Continue**.
3. (**Optional**) **Adjust hop count**: Enter the number of <GlossaryTooltip term="Hops">hops</GlossaryTooltip>. Then, select **Continue**.
4. (**Optional**, select **Skip for now** to skip this step) **Move messages**: Refer to [Auto-moves](/cloudflare-one/email-security/settings/auto-moves/) to configure auto-moves. Then, select **Continue**.
5. **Select your processing location**: Configure where you want Cloudflare to process your email. **Global** will be the default option. If you choose **Global**, `<account tag>@CF-emailsecurity.com` will be your regional service address. Once you have chosen your processing location, select **Continue**.
6. **Review details**: Review your connected domains and service addresses. Then, select **Go to domains.**

Your domains are now added successfully.

To view your connected domains:

1. Go to **Settings**.
2. Locate your domain, select the three dots > **View domain**. Selecting **View domain** will display information about your domain.

## 2. Configure journal rule

1. Log in to the [Microsoft Purview compliance portal](https://compliance.microsoft.com/homepage).

2. On the sidebar, go to **Settings** (the gear icon) > **Data Lifecycle Management** > **Exchange (legacy)**.

3. In **Send undeliverable journal reports to** enter the email address of a valid user account. Note that you cannot use a team or group address. Select **Save** once you entered the email address.

4. On the sidebar, go to **Solutions** > **Data Lifecycle Management** > **Exchange (legacy)**.

5. Select **Journal rules**.

6. Select **New rule** to configure a journaling rule, and configure it as follows:
   - **Send journal reports to**: This is the address you copied and pasted in step 5 of [Connect your domains](/cloudflare-one/email-security/setup/post-delivery-deployment/bcc-journaling/journaling-setup/m365-journaling/#connect-your-domains).
   - **Journal rule name**: `Journal Messages to Email security`
   - **Journal messages sent or received from**: _Everyone_
   - **Type of message to journal**: _External messages only_

7. Select **Next**.

8. Verify the information is correct, and select **Submit** > **Done**.

Once saved, the rule is automatically active. However, it may take a few minutes for the configuration to propagate and start pushing messages to Email security. After it propagates, you can [monitor your inbox](/cloudflare-one/email-security/monitoring/) in the Cloudflare dashboard to check the number of messages processed. This number will grow as journaled messages are sent to Email security from your Exchange server.

<Render
	file="email-security/post-verification-setup"
	product="cloudflare-one"
/>

## Next steps

<Render file="email-security/enable-logs" product="cloudflare-one" />
