src/content/docs/browser-rendering/rest-api/screenshot-endpoint.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: /screenshot - Capture screenshot
sidebar:
  order: 3
---

import { Tabs, TabItem, Render } from "~/components";

The `/screenshot` endpoint renders the webpage by processing its HTML and JavaScript, then captures a screenshot of the fully rendered page.

## Basic usage

### Capture a screenshot from HTML

<Tabs syncKey="workersExamples"> <TabItem label="curl">

Sets the HTML content of the page to `Hello World!` and then takes a screenshot. The option `omitBackground` hides the default white background and allows capturing screenshots with transparency.

```bash
curl -X POST 'https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/<accountId>/browser-rendering/screenshot' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <apiToken>' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
    "html": "Hello World!",
    "screenshotOptions": {
      "omitBackground": true
    }
  }' \
  --output "screenshot.png"
```

</TabItem> <TabItem label="TypeScript SDK">

```typescript
import Cloudflare from "cloudflare";

const client = new Cloudflare({
	apiToken: process.env["CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN"],
});

const screenshot = await client.browserRendering.screenshot.create({
	account_id: process.env["CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID"],
	html: "Hello World!",
    screenshotOptions: {
        omitBackground: true,
    }
});

console.log(screenshot.status);
```

</TabItem> </Tabs>

### Capture a screenshot from a URL

<Render
  file="example-screenshot-from-url"
  product="browser-rendering"
/>

For more options to control the final screenshot, like `clip`, `captureBeyondViewport`, `fullPage` and others, check the endpoint [reference](/api/resources/browser_rendering/subresources/screenshot/methods/create/).

:::note[Notes for basic usage]
- The `quality` parameter is not compatible with the default `.png` format and will return a 400 error. If you set `quality`, you must also set `type` to `.jpeg` or another supported format.
- By default, the browser viewport is set to **1920×1080**. You can override the default via request options.
:::

## Advanced usage

:::note[Looking for more parameters?]
Visit the [Browser Rendering PDF API reference](/api/resources/browser_rendering/subresources/screenshot/methods/create/) for all available parameters, such as setting HTTP credentials using `authenticate`, setting `cookies`, and customizing load behavior using `gotoOptions`.
:::

### Capture a screenshot of an authenticated page

Some webpages require authentication before you can view their content. To capture a screenshot of these pages, you must provide valid session cookies. The following example navigates to a page that requires login. By providing a valid cookie in the `cookies` array, Browser Rendering will be able to access the secure content in order to capture the screenshot. 

```bash
curl -X POST 'https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/<accountId>/browser-rendering/screenshot' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <apiToken>' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
    "url": "https://example.com/protected-page",
    "cookies": [
      {
        "name": "session_id",
        "value": "your-session-cookie-value",
        "domain": "example.com",
        "path": "/"
      }
    ]
  }' \
  --output "authenticated-screenshot.png"
```


### Navigate and capture a full-page screenshot

Navigate to `https://cloudflare.com/`, changing the page size (`viewport`) and waiting until there are no active network connections (`waitUntil`) or up to a maximum of `4500ms` (`timeout`). Then take a `fullPage` screenshot.

```bash
curl -X POST 'https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/<accountId>/browser-rendering/screenshot' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <apiToken>' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
    "url": "https://cloudflare.com/",
    "screenshotOptions": {
       "fullPage": true
    },
    "viewport": {
      "width": 1280,
      "height": 720
    },
    "gotoOptions": {
      "waitUntil": "networkidle0",
      "timeout": 45000
    }
  }' \
  --output "advanced-screenshot.png"
```

### Customize CSS and embed custom JavaScript

Instruct the browser to go to `https://example.com`, embed custom JavaScript (`addScriptTag`) and add extra styles (`addStyleTag`), both inline (`addStyleTag.content`) and by loading an external stylesheet (`addStyleTag.url`).

```bash
curl -X POST 'https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/<accountId>/browser-rendering/screenshot' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <apiToken>' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
    "url": "https://example.com/",
    "addScriptTag": [
      { "content": "document.querySelector(`h1`).innerText = `Hello World!!!`" }
    ],
    "addStyleTag": [
      {
        "content": "div { background: linear-gradient(45deg, #2980b9  , #82e0aa  ); }"
      },
      {
        "url": "https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/bootstrap@3.3.7/dist/css/bootstrap.min.css"
      }
    ]
  }' \
  --output "screenshot.png"
```
### Capture a specific element using the selector option
To capture a screenshot of a specific element on a webpage, use the `selector` option with a valid CSS selector. You can also configure the `viewport` to control the page dimensions during rendering.

```bash
curl -X POST 'https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/<accountId>/browser-rendering/screenshot' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <apiToken>' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
    "url": "https://example.com",
    "selector": "#example_element_name",
    "viewport": {
      "width": 1200,
      "height": 1600
    }
  }' \
  --output "screenshot.png"
```

Many more options exist, like setting HTTP credentials using `authenticate`, setting `cookies`, and using `gotoOptions` to control page load behaviour - check the endpoint [reference](/api/resources/browser_rendering/subresources/screenshot/methods/create/) for all available parameters.

<Render
  file="setting-custom-user-agent"
  product="browser-rendering"
/>

<Render
  file="faq"
  product="browser-rendering"
/>

Commit message:

Update content-endpoint.mdx (#25824)
* Update content-endpoint.mdx

- add subheadings
- update to same style as pdf endpoint

* Update screenshot-endpoint.mdx

- update to same style as pdf endpoint

* Update snapshot.mdx

- add subheadings
- update to same style as pdf endpoint

* Update scrape-endpoint.mdx

- add subheadings
- update to same style as pdf endpoint

* Update json-endpoint.mdx

- update to same style as pdf endpoint

* Update links-endpoint.mdx

- add subheadings
- update to same style as pdf endpoint

* Update markdown-endpoint.mdx

- add subheadings
- update to same style as pdf endpoint

* Update src/content/docs/browser-rendering/rest-api/links-endpoint.mdx

Co-authored-by: ToriLindsay <tgalatro@cloudflare.com>

* Update src/content/docs/browser-rendering/rest-api/links-endpoint.mdx

Co-authored-by: ToriLindsay <tgalatro@cloudflare.com>

* Update src/content/docs/browser-rendering/rest-api/scrape-endpoint.mdx

Co-authored-by: ToriLindsay <tgalatro@cloudflare.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: ToriLindsay <tgalatro@cloudflare.com>

src/content/docs/browser-rendering/rest-api/screenshot-endpoint.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: /screenshot - Capture screenshot
sidebar:
  order: 3
---

import { Tabs, TabItem, Render } from "~/components";

The `/screenshot` endpoint renders the webpage by processing its HTML and JavaScript, then captures a screenshot of the fully rendered page.

## Endpoint

```txt
https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/<accountId>/browser-rendering/screenshot
```

## Required fields
You must provide either `url` or `html`:
-  `url` (string)
-  `html` (string)

## Common use cases

-  Generate previews for websites, dashboards, or reports
-  Capture screenshots for automated testing, QA, or visual regression

## Basic usage

### Take a screenshot from custom HTML

<Tabs syncKey="workersExamples"> <TabItem label="curl">

Sets the HTML content of the page to `Hello World!` and then takes a screenshot. The option `omitBackground` hides the default white background and allows capturing screenshots with transparency.

```bash
curl -X POST 'https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/<accountId>/browser-rendering/screenshot' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <apiToken>' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
    "html": "Hello World!",
    "screenshotOptions": {
      "omitBackground": true
    }
  }' \
  --output "screenshot.png"
```

</TabItem> <TabItem label="TypeScript SDK">

```typescript
import Cloudflare from "cloudflare";

const client = new Cloudflare({
	apiToken: process.env["CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN"],
});

const screenshot = await client.browserRendering.screenshot.create({
	account_id: process.env["CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID"],
	html: "Hello World!",
    screenshotOptions: {
        omitBackground: true,
    }
});

console.log(screenshot.status);
```

</TabItem> </Tabs>

### Take a screenshot from a URL

<Render
  file="example-screenshot-from-url"
  product="browser-rendering"
/>

For more options to control the final screenshot, like `clip`, `captureBeyondViewport`, `fullPage` and others, check the endpoint [reference](/api/resources/browser_rendering/subresources/screenshot/methods/create/).

:::note[Notes for basic usage]
- The `quality` parameter is not compatible with the default `.png` format and will return a 400 error. If you set `quality`, you must also set `type` to `.jpeg` or another supported format.
- By default, the browser viewport is set to **1920×1080**. You can override the default via request options.
:::

## Advanced usage

:::note[Looking for more parameters?]
Visit the [Browser Rendering PDF API reference](/api/resources/browser_rendering/subresources/screenshot/methods/create/) for all available parameters, such as setting HTTP credentials using `authenticate`, setting `cookies`, and customizing load behavior using `gotoOptions`.
:::

### Capture a screenshot of an authenticated page

Some webpages require authentication before you can view their content. To capture a screenshot of these pages, you must provide valid session cookies. The following example navigates to a page that requires login. By providing a valid cookie in the `cookies` array, Browser Rendering will be able to access the secure content in order to capture the screenshot. 

```bash
curl -X POST 'https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/<accountId>/browser-rendering/screenshot' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <apiToken>' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
    "url": "https://example.com/protected-page",
    "cookies": [
      {
        "name": "session_id",
        "value": "your-session-cookie-value",
        "domain": "example.com",
        "path": "/"
      }
    ]
  }' \
  --output "authenticated-screenshot.png"
```

### Navigate and capture a full-page screenshot

Navigate to `https://cloudflare.com/`, change the page size (`viewport`) and wait until there are no active network connections (`waitUntil`) or up to a maximum of `4500ms` (`timeout`) before capturing a `fullPage` screenshot.

```bash
curl -X POST 'https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/<accountId>/browser-rendering/screenshot' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <apiToken>' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
    "url": "https://cloudflare.com/",
    "screenshotOptions": {
       "fullPage": true
    },
    "viewport": {
      "width": 1280,
      "height": 720
    },
    "gotoOptions": {
      "waitUntil": "networkidle0",
      "timeout": 45000
    }
  }' \
  --output "advanced-screenshot.png"
```

### Customize CSS and embed custom JavaScript

Instruct the browser to go to `https://example.com`, embed custom JavaScript (`addScriptTag`) and add extra styles (`addStyleTag`), both inline (`addStyleTag.content`) and by loading an external stylesheet (`addStyleTag.url`).

```bash
curl -X POST 'https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/<accountId>/browser-rendering/screenshot' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <apiToken>' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
    "url": "https://example.com/",
    "addScriptTag": [
      { "content": "document.querySelector(`h1`).innerText = `Hello World!!!`" }
    ],
    "addStyleTag": [
      {
        "content": "div { background: linear-gradient(45deg, #2980b9  , #82e0aa  ); }"
      },
      {
        "url": "https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/bootstrap@3.3.7/dist/css/bootstrap.min.css"
      }
    ]
  }' \
  --output "screenshot.png"
```

### Capture a specific element using the selector option

To capture a screenshot of a specific element on a webpage, use the `selector` option with a valid CSS selector. You can also configure the `viewport` to control the page dimensions during rendering.

```bash
curl -X POST 'https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/<accountId>/browser-rendering/screenshot' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <apiToken>' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
    "url": "https://example.com",
    "selector": "#example_element_name",
    "viewport": {
      "width": 1200,
      "height": 1600
    }
  }' \
  --output "screenshot.png"
```

Many more options exist, like setting HTTP credentials using `authenticate`, setting `cookies`, and using `gotoOptions` to control page load behaviour - check the endpoint [reference](/api/resources/browser_rendering/subresources/screenshot/methods/create/) for all available parameters.

<Render
  file="setting-custom-user-agent"
  product="browser-rendering"
/>

<Render
  file="faq"
  product="browser-rendering"
/>
