src/content/docs/browser-rendering/rest-api/snapshot.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: /snapshot - Take a webpage snapshot
sidebar:
  order: 6
---

import { Tabs, TabItem, Render } from "~/components";

The `/snapshot` endpoint captures both the HTML content and a screenshot of the webpage in one request. It returns the HTML as a text string and the screenshot as a Base64-encoded image.

## Basic usage

<Tabs syncKey="workersExamples"> <TabItem label="curl">

1. Go to `https://example.com/`.
2. Inject custom JavaScript.
3. Capture the rendered HTML.
4. Take a screenshot.

```bash
curl -X POST 'https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/<accountId>/browser-rendering/snapshot' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <apiToken>' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
    "url": "https://example.com/",
    "addScriptTag": [
      { "content": "document.body.innerHTML = \"Snapshot Page\";" }
    ]
  }'
```

```json output
{
	"success": true,
	"result": {
		"screenshot": "Base64EncodedScreenshotString",
		"content": "<html>...</html>"
	}
}
```

</TabItem> <TabItem label="TypeScript SDK">

```typescript
import Cloudflare from "cloudflare";

const client = new Cloudflare({
	apiToken: process.env["CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN"],
});

const snapshot = await client.browserRendering.snapshot.create({
	account_id: process.env["CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID"],
	url: "https://example.com/",
	addScriptTag: [
        { content: "document.body.innerHTML = \"Snapshot Page\";" }
    ]
});

console.log(snapshot.content);
```

</TabItem> </Tabs>

## Advanced usage

The `html` property in the JSON payload, it sets the html to `<html><body>Advanced Snapshot</body></html>` then does the following steps:

1. Disable JavaScript.
2. Sets the screenshot to `fullPage`.
3. Changes the page size `(viewport)`.
4. Waits up to `30000ms` or until the `DOMContentLoaded` event fires.
5. Returns the rendered HTML content and a base-64 encoded screenshot of the page.

```bash
curl -X POST 'https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/<accountId>/browser-rendering/snapshot' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <apiToken>' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
    "html": "<html><body>Advanced Snapshot</body></html>",
    "setJavaScriptEnabled": false,
    "screenshotOptions": {
       "fullPage": true
    },
    "viewport": {
      "width": 1200,
      "height": 800
    },
    "gotoOptions": {
      "waitUntil": "domcontentloaded",
      "timeout": 30000
    }
  }'
```

```json output
{
	"success": true,
	"result": {
		"screenshot": "AdvancedBase64Screenshot",
		"content": "<html><body>Advanced Snapshot</body></html>"
	}
}
```
<Render
  file="setting-custom-user-agent"
  product="browser-rendering"
/>

Many more options exist, like setting HTTP credentials using `authenticate`, setting `cookies`, and using `gotoOptions` to control page load behaviour - check the endpoint [reference](/api/resources/browser_rendering/subresources/snapshot/) for all available parameters.

Commit message:

Create faq.mdx (#25806)
* Create faq.mdx

* Update faq.mdx

make header

* Update content-endpoint.mdx

* Update json-endpoint.mdx

* Update links-endpoint.mdx

* Update markdown-endpoint.mdx

* Update pdf-endpoint.mdx

* Update scrape-endpoint.mdx

* Update screenshot-endpoint.mdx

* Update snapshot.mdx

* Update content-endpoint.mdx

* Update json-endpoint.mdx

* Update links-endpoint.mdx

* Update markdown-endpoint.mdx

* Update scrape-endpoint.mdx

* Update screenshot-endpoint.mdx

* Update snapshot.mdx

* Update src/content/docs/browser-rendering/rest-api/markdown-endpoint.mdx

Co-authored-by: ToriLindsay <tgalatro@cloudflare.com>

* Update src/content/docs/browser-rendering/rest-api/markdown-endpoint.mdx

Co-authored-by: ToriLindsay <tgalatro@cloudflare.com>

* Update src/content/docs/browser-rendering/rest-api/markdown-endpoint.mdx

Co-authored-by: ToriLindsay <tgalatro@cloudflare.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: ToriLindsay <tgalatro@cloudflare.com>

src/content/docs/browser-rendering/rest-api/snapshot.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: /snapshot - Take a webpage snapshot
sidebar:
  order: 6
---

import { Tabs, TabItem, Render } from "~/components";

The `/snapshot` endpoint captures both the HTML content and a screenshot of the webpage in one request. It returns the HTML as a text string and the screenshot as a Base64-encoded image.

## Basic usage

<Tabs syncKey="workersExamples"> <TabItem label="curl">

1. Go to `https://example.com/`.
2. Inject custom JavaScript.
3. Capture the rendered HTML.
4. Take a screenshot.

```bash
curl -X POST 'https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/<accountId>/browser-rendering/snapshot' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <apiToken>' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
    "url": "https://example.com/",
    "addScriptTag": [
      { "content": "document.body.innerHTML = \"Snapshot Page\";" }
    ]
  }'
```

```json output
{
	"success": true,
	"result": {
		"screenshot": "Base64EncodedScreenshotString",
		"content": "<html>...</html>"
	}
}
```

</TabItem> <TabItem label="TypeScript SDK">

```typescript
import Cloudflare from "cloudflare";

const client = new Cloudflare({
	apiToken: process.env["CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN"],
});

const snapshot = await client.browserRendering.snapshot.create({
	account_id: process.env["CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID"],
	url: "https://example.com/",
	addScriptTag: [
        { content: "document.body.innerHTML = \"Snapshot Page\";" }
    ]
});

console.log(snapshot.content);
```

</TabItem> </Tabs>

## Advanced usage

:::note[Looking for more parameters?]
Visit the [Browser Rendering PDF API reference](/api/resources/browser_rendering/subresources/snapshot/methods/create/) for all available parameters, such as setting HTTP credentials using `authenticate`, setting `cookies`, and customizing load behavior using `gotoOptions`.
:::

The `html` property in the JSON payload, it sets the html to `<html><body>Advanced Snapshot</body></html>` then does the following steps:

1. Disable JavaScript.
2. Sets the screenshot to `fullPage`.
3. Changes the page size `(viewport)`.
4. Waits up to `30000ms` or until the `DOMContentLoaded` event fires.
5. Returns the rendered HTML content and a base-64 encoded screenshot of the page.

```bash
curl -X POST 'https://api.cloudflare.com/client/v4/accounts/<accountId>/browser-rendering/snapshot' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <apiToken>' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
    "html": "<html><body>Advanced Snapshot</body></html>",
    "setJavaScriptEnabled": false,
    "screenshotOptions": {
       "fullPage": true
    },
    "viewport": {
      "width": 1200,
      "height": 800
    },
    "gotoOptions": {
      "waitUntil": "domcontentloaded",
      "timeout": 30000
    }
  }'
```

```json output
{
	"success": true,
	"result": {
		"screenshot": "AdvancedBase64Screenshot",
		"content": "<html><body>Advanced Snapshot</body></html>"
	}
}
```
<Render
  file="setting-custom-user-agent"
  product="browser-rendering"
/>

<Render
  file="faq"
  product="browser-rendering"
/>
