src/content/docs/rules/transform/response-header-modification/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Response Header Transform Rules
pcx_content_type: concept
sidebar:
  order: 3
  group:
    label: Modify response headers
---

import { Render } from "~/components";

Use Response Header Transform Rules to manipulate the headers of HTTP responses sent to website visitors.

```mermaid
flowchart LR
accTitle: Header modifications diagram
accDescr: Header transform rules can change the headers sent to your origin server (request header modifications) or sent your your website visitors (response header modifications).

A[Visitor]
B((Cloudflare))
C[(Origin server)]

A -.-> B -. "Includes request<br> header modifications" .-> C
C -.-> B == "Includes response<br> header modifications" ==> A

style A stroke-width: 2px
style B stroke: orange,fill: orange,color: black
linkStyle 0,1,2 stroke-width: 1px
linkStyle 3 stroke-width: 3px
```

<br />

To modify HTTP headers in the **request** sent to your origin server, refer to [Request Header Transform Rules](/rules/transform/request-header-modification/).

Through Response Header Transform Rules you can:

- Set the value of an HTTP response header to a literal string value, overwriting its previous value or adding a new header to the response if it does not exist.
- Set the value of an HTTP response header according to an expression, overwriting its previous value or adding a new header to the response if it does not exist.
- Add a new HTTP response header with a literal string value without removing any existing headers with the same name.
- Add a new HTTP response header according to an expression without removing any existing headers with the same name.
- Remove an HTTP header from the response.

You can create a response header transform rule [in the dashboard](/rules/transform/response-header-modification/create-dashboard/), [via API](/rules/transform/response-header-modification/create-api/), or [using Terraform](/terraform/additional-configurations/transform-rules/#create-a-response-header-transform-rule).

<Render
	file="snippets-alternative"
	product="rules"
	params={{ suffix: "response header modifications" }}
/>

## Important remarks

- The response header values are calculated using the field values from the corresponding HTTP request. For example, the value of `ip.src.country` will be the country of the website visitor, not the origin where the response was sent from.

- You cannot add, modify, or remove HTTP response headers whose name starts with `cf-` or `x-cf-`.

- You cannot modify the value of certain headers such as `server`, `eh-cache-tag`, or `eh-cdn-cache-control`.

- Currently you cannot reference [IP lists](/waf/tools/lists/custom-lists/#ip-lists) in expressions of Response Header Transform Rules.

- The HTTP response header removal operation will remove all response headers with the provided name.

- If you change the value of an existing HTTP response header using an expression that evaluates to an empty string (`""`) or an undefined value, the HTTP response header is **removed**.

- Currently, there is a limited number of HTTP response headers that you cannot change. Cloudflare may remove restrictions for some of these HTTP response headers when presented with valid use cases. [Create a post in the community](https://community.cloudflare.com) for consideration.

- Response Header Transform Rules will also apply to default Cloudflare error pages and [Custom Errors](/rules/custom-errors/).

- Modifying `cache-control`, `CDN-Cache-Control`, or `Cloudflare-CDN-Cache-Control` headers will not change the way Cloudflare caches an object. Instead, you should create a [Cache Rule](/cache/how-to/cache-rules/).

- To add a `set-cookie` header to the response, make sure you use one of the _Add static_/_Add dynamic_ operations instead of _Set static_/_Set dynamic_. Using one of the _Set_ operations will remove any `set-cookie` headers already in the response, including those added by other Cloudflare products such as Bot Management.

<Render
	file="troubleshoot-rules-with-trace"
	product="rules"
	params={{ rulesFeatureName: "Response Header Transform Rules" }}
/>

Commit message:

[Rules] Clarify rule execution for Transform Rules (#26783)

src/content/docs/rules/transform/response-header-modification/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Response Header Transform Rules
pcx_content_type: concept
sidebar:
  order: 3
  group:
    label: Modify response headers
---

import { Render } from "~/components";

Use Response Header Transform Rules to manipulate the headers of HTTP responses sent to website visitors.

```mermaid
flowchart LR
accTitle: Header modifications diagram
accDescr: Header transform rules can change the headers sent to your origin server (request header modifications) or sent your your website visitors (response header modifications).

A[Visitor]
B((Cloudflare))
C[(Origin server)]

A -.-> B -. "Includes request<br> header modifications" .-> C
C -.-> B == "Includes response<br> header modifications" ==> A

style A stroke-width: 2px
style B stroke: orange,fill: orange,color: black
linkStyle 0,1,2 stroke-width: 1px
linkStyle 3 stroke-width: 3px
```

<br />

To modify HTTP headers in the **request** sent to your origin server, refer to [Request Header Transform Rules](/rules/transform/request-header-modification/).

Through Response Header Transform Rules you can:

- Set the value of an HTTP response header to a literal string value, overwriting its previous value or adding a new header to the response if it does not exist.
- Set the value of an HTTP response header according to an expression, overwriting its previous value or adding a new header to the response if it does not exist.
- Add a new HTTP response header with a literal string value without removing any existing headers with the same name.
- Add a new HTTP response header according to an expression without removing any existing headers with the same name.
- Remove an HTTP header from the response.

You can create a response header transform rule [in the dashboard](/rules/transform/response-header-modification/create-dashboard/), [via API](/rules/transform/response-header-modification/create-api/), or [using Terraform](/terraform/additional-configurations/transform-rules/#create-a-response-header-transform-rule).

<Render
	file="snippets-alternative"
	product="rules"
	params={{ suffix: "response header modifications" }}
/>

## Important remarks

- The response header values are calculated using the field values from the corresponding HTTP request. For example, the value of `ip.src.country` will be the country of the website visitor, not the origin where the response was sent from.

- You cannot add, modify, or remove HTTP response headers whose name starts with `cf-` or `x-cf-`.

- You cannot modify the value of certain headers such as `server`, `eh-cache-tag`, or `eh-cdn-cache-control`.

- Currently you cannot reference [IP lists](/waf/tools/lists/custom-lists/#ip-lists) in expressions of Response Header Transform Rules.

- The HTTP response header removal operation will remove all response headers with the provided name.

- If you change the value of an existing HTTP response header using an expression that evaluates to an empty string (`""`) or an undefined value, the HTTP response header is **removed**.

- Currently, there is a limited number of HTTP response headers that you cannot change. Cloudflare may remove restrictions for some of these HTTP response headers when presented with valid use cases. [Create a post in the community](https://community.cloudflare.com) for consideration.

- Response header transform rules will also apply to default Cloudflare error pages and [Custom Errors](/rules/custom-errors/).

- Modifying `cache-control`, `CDN-Cache-Control`, or `Cloudflare-CDN-Cache-Control` headers will not change the way Cloudflare caches an object. Instead, you should create a [Cache Rule](/cache/how-to/cache-rules/).

- To add a `set-cookie` header to the response, make sure you use one of the _Add static_/_Add dynamic_ operations instead of _Set static_/_Set dynamic_. Using one of the _Set_ operations will remove any `set-cookie` headers already in the response, including those added by other Cloudflare products such as Bot Management.

- Response header transform rules run in order, and later rules can overwrite changes done by previous rules.

- The values of request and response fields are immutable within each [phase](/ruleset-engine/about/phases/), such as the `http_response_headers_transform` phase where response header transform rules are defined. This means that later response header transform rules will not match based on changes done by previous response header transform rules. Refer to [Field values during rule evaluation](/ruleset-engine/about/rules/#field-values-during-rule-evaluation) for more information.

<Render
	file="troubleshoot-rules-with-trace"
	product="rules"
	params={{ rulesFeatureName: "Response Header Transform Rules" }}
/>
