src/content/docs/fundamentals/manage-domains/add-site.mdx, before:

---
title: Onboard a domain
pcx_content_type: tutorial

---

import { DashButton, GlossaryTooltip, Render } from "~/components"

If you purchased your domain from a different provider, you can still connect the domain to Cloudflare. After you connect your domain to Cloudflare, Cloudflare will act as the [reverse proxy](/fundamentals/concepts/how-cloudflare-works/#cloudflare-as-a-reverse-proxy) and [DNS provider](/fundamentals/concepts/how-cloudflare-works/#cloudflare-as-a-dns-provider) for your site.

The information below applies to a [full DNS setup](/dns/zone-setups/full-setup) which is the most common configuration.

:::note
To use Cloudflare as a reverse proxy but maintain your DNS provider, refer to [partial setup](/dns/zone-setups/partial-setup/). To use one or more DNS providers, refer to or [DNS Zone transfers](/dns/zone-setups/zone-transfers/).
:::

## Prerequisites

[Disable DNSSEC](/dns/dnssec/#disable-dnssec) at the registrar where you purchased your domain name to avoid connectivity errors when you change your nameservers.

## 1. Onboard a domain in Cloudflare

1. Log in to the Cloudflare dashboard.

      <DashButton url="/?to=/:account/home" />

2. Select **Onboard a domain**.
3. Enter your website's <GlossaryTooltip term="apex domain">apex domain</GlossaryTooltip> (for example, `example.com`), choose how you would like to add your [DNS records](/dns/manage-dns-records/), and select **Continue**.
   :::note
   If Cloudflare is unable to identify your domain as a registered domain, make sure you are using an existing [top-level domain](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/dns/top-level-domain/) (`.com`, `.net`, `.biz`, or others).

   Cloudflare requires your apex domain to be one level below a valid TLD defined in the [Public Suffix List (PSL)](https://github.com/publicsuffix/list/blob/master/public_suffix_list.dat). Enterprise customers can onboard lower-level subdomains using [Subdomain setup](/dns/zone-setups/subdomain-setup/).
   :::

4. Select a [plan](https://www.cloudflare.com/plans/#compare-features).
5. [Review your DNS records](/dns/zone-setups/full-setup/setup/#review-dns-records) to ensure none are missing. Your DNS records must accurate for your domain to work properly.

   <Render file="dns-scan-intro" product="dns" /> <br />

   1. <Render file="dns-scan-procedure" product="dns" />

      <Render file="dns-nxdomain-warning" product="dns" />

   2. If you find any missing records, [manually add](/dns/manage-dns-records/how-to/create-dns-records/) those records.
   3. Depending on your site setup, you may want to adjust the [proxy status](/dns/proxy-status/) for certain `A`, `AAAA`, or `CNAME` records.
   4. Select **Continue**.

## 2. Update nameservers

<Render file="nameserver-preamble" product="dns" /> <br/>

<Render file="update-nameservers" product="fundamentals" />

<Render file="minimize-downtime-tip" product="dns" />

## 3. Complete SSL/TLS setup

To prevent insecure connections and visitor browser errors, [enable SSL/TLS protection](/ssl/get-started/). Many Cloudflare services will automatically protect and speed up your web traffic after your nameservers are updated.

If you encounter unexpected results when changing your nameservers, refer to the [DNS Full Setup troubleshooting](/dns/zone-setups/full-setup/troubleshooting/).

Commit message:

Ai descriptions util (#25736)
* Edits

* final files

* remove tab

* fix more tabs

* fixed steps

* fix

* final fix

* Update src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/tutorials/okta-u2f.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/tutorials/vnc-client-in-browser.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/r2/tutorials/cloudflare-access.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/pages/how-to/deploy-a-wordpress-site.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/pages/migrations/migrating-from-netlify.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/reference-architecture/design-guides/network-vpn-migration.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/ssl/keyless-ssl/hardware-security-modules/ibm-cloud-hsm.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update src/content/docs/turnstile/tutorials/excluding-turnstile-from-e2e-tests.mdx

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

* update

---------

Co-authored-by: Pedro Sousa <680496+pedrosousa@users.noreply.github.com>

src/content/docs/fundamentals/manage-domains/add-site.mdx, after:

---
title: Onboard a domain
pcx_content_type: tutorial
description: >-
  Learn how to connect the domain to Cloudflare, even if you purchased your domain name from another provider.
---

import { DashButton, GlossaryTooltip, Render } from "~/components"

If you purchased your domain from a different provider, you can still connect the domain to Cloudflare. After you connect your domain to Cloudflare, Cloudflare will act as the [reverse proxy](/fundamentals/concepts/how-cloudflare-works/#cloudflare-as-a-reverse-proxy) and [DNS provider](/fundamentals/concepts/how-cloudflare-works/#cloudflare-as-a-dns-provider) for your site.

The information below applies to a [full DNS setup](/dns/zone-setups/full-setup) which is the most common configuration.

:::note
To use Cloudflare as a reverse proxy but maintain your DNS provider, refer to [partial setup](/dns/zone-setups/partial-setup/). To use one or more DNS providers, refer to or [DNS Zone transfers](/dns/zone-setups/zone-transfers/).
:::

## Prerequisites

[Disable DNSSEC](/dns/dnssec/#disable-dnssec) at the registrar where you purchased your domain name to avoid connectivity errors when you change your nameservers.

## 1. Onboard a domain in Cloudflare

1. Log in to the Cloudflare dashboard.

      <DashButton url="/?to=/:account/home" />

2. Select **Onboard a domain**.
3. Enter your website's <GlossaryTooltip term="apex domain">apex domain</GlossaryTooltip> (for example, `example.com`), choose how you would like to add your [DNS records](/dns/manage-dns-records/), and select **Continue**.
   :::note
   If Cloudflare is unable to identify your domain as a registered domain, make sure you are using an existing [top-level domain](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/dns/top-level-domain/) (`.com`, `.net`, `.biz`, or others).

   Cloudflare requires your apex domain to be one level below a valid TLD defined in the [Public Suffix List (PSL)](https://github.com/publicsuffix/list/blob/master/public_suffix_list.dat). Enterprise customers can onboard lower-level subdomains using [Subdomain setup](/dns/zone-setups/subdomain-setup/).
   :::

4. Select a [plan](https://www.cloudflare.com/plans/#compare-features).
5. [Review your DNS records](/dns/zone-setups/full-setup/setup/#review-dns-records) to ensure none are missing. Your DNS records must accurate for your domain to work properly.

   <Render file="dns-scan-intro" product="dns" /> <br />

   1. <Render file="dns-scan-procedure" product="dns" />

      <Render file="dns-nxdomain-warning" product="dns" />

   2. If you find any missing records, [manually add](/dns/manage-dns-records/how-to/create-dns-records/) those records.
   3. Depending on your site setup, you may want to adjust the [proxy status](/dns/proxy-status/) for certain `A`, `AAAA`, or `CNAME` records.
   4. Select **Continue**.

## 2. Update nameservers

<Render file="nameserver-preamble" product="dns" /> <br/>

<Render file="update-nameservers" product="fundamentals" />

<Render file="minimize-downtime-tip" product="dns" />

## 3. Complete SSL/TLS setup

To prevent insecure connections and visitor browser errors, [enable SSL/TLS protection](/ssl/get-started/). Many Cloudflare services will automatically protect and speed up your web traffic after your nameservers are updated.

If you encounter unexpected results when changing your nameservers, refer to the [DNS Full Setup troubleshooting](/dns/zone-setups/full-setup/troubleshooting/).
