src/content/docs/dns/nameservers/update-nameservers.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: Update nameservers
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

import { Render } from "~/components";

To use Cloudflare DNS as an authoritative DNS provider - be it in a [primary (full)](/dns/zone-setups/full-setup/) or [secondary](/dns/zone-setups/zone-transfers/cloudflare-as-secondary/) setup -, your domain nameservers must point to nameservers that you get from your Cloudflare account. Updating your nameservers is required to activate your domain on Cloudflare and use most of our [application services](/fundamentals/concepts/how-cloudflare-works/).

## Specific processes

Although Cloudflare will [provide you the nameservers](/dns/nameservers/#authoritative-nameservers-offering) or allow you to create your own [custom nameservers](/dns/nameservers/custom-nameservers/), the final step to make Cloudflare an authoritative DNS provider for your domain may have to be done outside of Cloudflare.

Unless you are using [Cloudflare Registrar](/registrar/), consider which of the following sections correspond to your use case.

### Your domain uses a different registrar

If you have acquired your domain from a [registrar](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/dns/glossary/what-is-a-domain-name-registrar/) other than Cloudflare Registrar - and it has not been [delegated to another zone](#your-domain-is-delegated-to-another-zone) - you need to update your nameservers at your registrar.

<Render file="ns-update-providers" product="dns" />

If you do not know who your registrar is, you can use a Whois search, such as [ICANN Lookup](https://lookup.icann.org/). If the registrar indicated on your Whois search result is not a service that you have interacted directly with, you may [have acquired your domain from a reseller](#you-have-acquired-your-domain-from-a-reseller).

### You have acquired your domain from a reseller

Some services, such as website builders ([Squarespace](https://support.squarespace.com/hc/articles/115003671428-Who-s-my-domain-provider), for example), are not registrars but act as a [reseller](https://www.icann.org/resources/pages/reseller-2013-05-03-en), allowing you to buy domains directly from them.

In that case, you may have to update your nameservers in the reseller platform, not at the registrar.

:::note

Refer to [Squarespace documentation](https://support.squarespace.com/hc/articles/4404183898125-Nameservers-and-DNSSEC-for-Squarespace-managed-domains#toc-open-the-domain-s-advanced-settings) on how to update nameservers in their platform.
:::

### Your domain is delegated to another zone

If you are onboarding a subdomain `shop.example.com` as a [child domain](/dns/zone-setups/subdomain-setup/), it is expected that the child domain has been delegated to the parent domain.

Delegation means that `shop.example.com` has specific `NS` records set up for it within the DNS records management of the parent zone (`example.com`).

If that is the case, when setting up your zone in Cloudflare or opting for a different set of [nameservers](/dns/nameservers/), you have to update the `NS` records in the parent domain, and not at the registrar.

Commit message:

[DNS] Advanced NS - network groups and wildcard records (#25094)
* Adjust network groups explanation to consider three groups

* Fix wildcard behavior described for advaced nameservers

* Disambiguate Cloudflare Registrar role in update-nameservers.mdx

* Apply suggestions from PM review

* Further clarify empty non-terminal and descendant logic

* Explicitly state wildcards are supported

src/content/docs/dns/nameservers/update-nameservers.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: Update nameservers
sidebar:
  order: 2
---

import { Render } from "~/components";

To use Cloudflare DNS as an authoritative DNS provider - be it in a [primary (full)](/dns/zone-setups/full-setup/) or [secondary](/dns/zone-setups/zone-transfers/cloudflare-as-secondary/) setup -, your domain nameservers must point to nameservers that you get from your Cloudflare account. Updating your nameservers is required to activate your domain on Cloudflare and use most of our [application services](/fundamentals/concepts/how-cloudflare-works/).

## Specific processes

Although Cloudflare will [provide you the nameservers](/dns/nameservers/#authoritative-nameservers-offering) or allow you to create your own [custom nameservers](/dns/nameservers/custom-nameservers/), the final step to make Cloudflare an authoritative DNS provider for your domain may have to be done outside of Cloudflare. If you are not using [Cloudflare Registrar](/registrar/), consider which of the following sections correspond to your use case.

:::note[Custom or advanced nameservers]
If you are using Cloudflare Registrar with [custom nameservers](/dns/nameservers/custom-nameservers/) or [advanced nameservers](/dns/foundation-dns/setup/), note that you must [reach out to support](/support/contacting-cloudflare-support/) to have the nameservers updated accordingly.
:::

### Your domain uses a different registrar

If you have acquired your domain from a [registrar](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/dns/glossary/what-is-a-domain-name-registrar/) other than Cloudflare Registrar - and it has not been [delegated to another zone](#your-domain-is-delegated-to-another-zone) - you need to update your nameservers at your registrar.

<Render file="ns-update-providers" product="dns" />

If you do not know who your registrar is, you can use a Whois search, such as [ICANN Lookup](https://lookup.icann.org/). If the registrar indicated on your Whois search result is not a service that you have interacted directly with, you may [have acquired your domain from a reseller](#you-have-acquired-your-domain-from-a-reseller).

### You have acquired your domain from a reseller

Some services, such as website builders ([Squarespace](https://support.squarespace.com/hc/articles/115003671428-Who-s-my-domain-provider), for example), are not registrars but act as a [reseller](https://www.icann.org/resources/pages/reseller-2013-05-03-en), allowing you to buy domains directly from them.

In that case, you may have to update your nameservers in the reseller platform, not at the registrar.

:::note

Refer to [Squarespace documentation](https://support.squarespace.com/hc/articles/4404183898125-Nameservers-and-DNSSEC-for-Squarespace-managed-domains#toc-open-the-domain-s-advanced-settings) on how to update nameservers in their platform.
:::

### Your domain is delegated to another zone

If you are onboarding a subdomain `shop.example.com` as a [child domain](/dns/zone-setups/subdomain-setup/), it is expected that the child domain has been delegated to the parent domain.

Delegation means that `shop.example.com` has specific `NS` records set up for it within the DNS records management of the parent zone (`example.com`).

If that is the case, when setting up your zone in Cloudflare or opting for a different set of [nameservers](/dns/nameservers/), you have to update the `NS` records in the parent domain, and not at the registrar.
