src/content/partials/workers/bindings_per_env.mdx, before:

---
{}
---

## Local development

**Local simulations**: During local development, your Worker code always executes locally and bindings connect to locally simulated resources [by default](/workers/development-testing/#remote-bindings). This is supported in [`wrangler dev`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#dev) and the [Cloudflare Vite plugin](/workers/vite-plugin/).

**Remote binding connections:**: Allows you to connect to remote, deployed resources on a per-binding basis. Supported in [`wrangler dev --x-remote-bindings`](/workers/development-testing/#using-wrangler-with-remote-bindings) and the [Cloudflare Vite plugin](/workers/development-testing/#using-vite-with-remote-bindings).

| Binding                                 | Local simulations | Remote binding connections |
| --------------------------------------- | :---------------: | :------------------------: |
| **AI**                                  |        ❌         |             ✅             |
| **Assets**                              |        ✅         |             ❌             |
| **Analytics Engine**                    |        ✅         |             ❌             |
| **Browser Rendering**                   |        ✅         |             ✅             |
| **D1**                                  |        ✅         |             ✅             |
| **Durable Objects**                     |        ✅         |             ❌             |
| **Containers**                          |        ✅         |             ❌             |
| **Email Bindings**                      |        ✅         |             ✅             |
| **Hyperdrive**                          |        ✅         |             ❌             |
| **Images**                              |        ✅         |             ✅             |
| **KV**                                  |        ✅         |             ✅             |
| **mTLS**                                |        ❌         |             ✅             |
| **Queues**                              |        ✅         |             ✅             |
| **R2**                                  |        ✅         |             ✅             |
| **Rate Limiting**                       |        ✅         |             ❌             |
| **Service Bindings (multiple Workers)** |        ✅         |             ✅             |
| **Vectorize**                           |        ❌         |             ✅             |
| **Workflows**                           |        ✅         |             ❌             |

## Remote development

During remote development, all of your Worker code is uploaded and executed on Cloudflare's infrastructure, and bindings always connect to remote resources. **We recommend using local development with remote binding connections instead** for faster iteration and debugging.

Supported only in [`wrangler dev --remote`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#dev) - there is **no Vite plugin equivalent**.

| Binding                                 | Remote development |
| --------------------------------------- | :----------------: |
| **AI**                                  |         ✅         |
| **Assets**                              |         ✅         |
| **Analytics Engine**                    |         ✅         |
| **Browser Rendering**                   |         ✅         |
| **D1**                                  |         ✅         |
| **Durable Objects**                     |         ✅         |
| **Containers**                          |         ❌         |
| **Email Bindings**                      |         ✅         |
| **Hyperdrive**                          |         ✅         |
| **Images**                              |         ✅         |
| **KV**                                  |         ✅         |
| **mTLS**                                |         ✅         |
| **Queues**                              |         ❌         |
| **R2**                                  |         ✅         |
| **Rate Limiting**                       |         ✅         |
| **Service Bindings (multiple Workers)** |         ✅         |
| **Vectorize**                           |         ✅         |
| **Workflows**                           |         ❌         |

Commit message:

Update remote binding connections description and table (#25270)
* Update remote binding connections description and table

Clarified the description of remote binding connections and added a footnote for Durable Objects. Updated the table to include footnote reference.

* Fix formatting of remote binding connections section

* Update src/content/partials/workers/bindings_per_env.mdx

Co-authored-by: lrapoport-cf <107272160+lrapoport-cf@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: lrapoport-cf <107272160+lrapoport-cf@users.noreply.github.com>

src/content/partials/workers/bindings_per_env.mdx, after:

---
{}
---

## Local development

**Local simulations**: During local development, your Worker code always executes locally and bindings connect to locally simulated resources [by default](/workers/development-testing/#remote-bindings). This is supported in [`wrangler dev`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#dev) and the [Cloudflare Vite plugin](/workers/vite-plugin/).

**Remote binding connections:**: Allows you to connect to remote resources on a [per-binding basis](/workers/development-testing/#remote-bindings). This is supported in [`wrangler dev`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#dev) and the [Cloudflare Vite plugin](/workers/vite-plugin/).

| Binding                                 | Local simulations | Remote binding connections |
| --------------------------------------- | :---------------: | :------------------------: |
| **AI**                                  |        ❌         |             ✅             |
| **Assets**                              |        ✅         |             ❌             |
| **Analytics Engine**                    |        ✅         |             ❌             |
| **Browser Rendering**                   |        ✅         |             ✅             |
| **D1**                                  |        ✅         |             ✅             |
| **Durable Objects**                     |        ✅         |             ❌ [^1]            |
| **Containers**                          |        ✅         |             ❌             |
| **Email Bindings**                      |        ✅         |             ✅             |
| **Hyperdrive**                          |        ✅         |             ❌             |
| **Images**                              |        ✅         |             ✅             |
| **KV**                                  |        ✅         |             ✅             |
| **mTLS**                                |        ❌         |             ✅             |
| **Queues**                              |        ✅         |             ✅             |
| **R2**                                  |        ✅         |             ✅             |
| **Rate Limiting**                       |        ✅         |             ❌             |
| **Service Bindings (multiple Workers)** |        ✅         |             ✅             |
| **Vectorize**                           |        ❌         |             ✅             |
| **Workflows**                           |        ✅         |             ❌             |

[^1]: Refer to [Using remote resources with Durable Objects and Workflows](/workers/development-testing/#using-remote-resources-with-durable-objects-and-workflows) for recommended workarounds.

## Remote development

During remote development, all of your Worker code is uploaded and executed on Cloudflare's infrastructure, and bindings always connect to remote resources. **We recommend using local development with remote binding connections instead** for faster iteration and debugging.

Supported only in [`wrangler dev --remote`](/workers/wrangler/commands/#dev) - there is **no Vite plugin equivalent**.

| Binding                                 | Remote development |
| --------------------------------------- | :----------------: |
| **AI**                                  |         ✅         |
| **Assets**                              |         ✅         |
| **Analytics Engine**                    |         ✅         |
| **Browser Rendering**                   |         ✅         |
| **D1**                                  |         ✅         |
| **Durable Objects**                     |         ✅         |
| **Containers**                          |         ❌         |
| **Email Bindings**                      |         ✅         |
| **Hyperdrive**                          |         ✅         |
| **Images**                              |         ✅         |
| **KV**                                  |         ✅         |
| **mTLS**                                |         ✅         |
| **Queues**                              |         ❌         |
| **R2**                                  |         ✅         |
| **Rate Limiting**                       |         ✅         |
| **Service Bindings (multiple Workers)** |         ✅         |
| **Vectorize**                           |         ✅         |
| **Workflows**                           |         ❌         |
