src/content/docs/turnstile/get-started/client-side-rendering/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Embed the widget
pcx_content_type: get-started
sidebar:
  order: 3
---

import { Render, Tabs, TabItem, Steps, Details } from "~/components";

Learn how to add the Turnstile widget to your webpage using implicit or explicit rendering methods.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, you must have:

- A Cloudflare account
- [A Turnstile widget](/turnstile/get-started/#1-create-your-widget) with a sitekey
- Access to edit your website's HTML
- Basic knowledge of HTML and JavaScript

## Process

1. Page load: The Turnstile script loads and scans for elements or waits for programmatic calls.
2. Widget rendering: Widgets are created and begin running challenges.
3. Token generation: When a challenge is completed, a token is generated.
4. Form integration: The token is made available via callbacks or hidden form fields.
5. Server validation: Your server receives the token and validates it using the Siteverify API.

## Implicit rendering

Implicit rendering automatically scans your HTML for elements with the `cf-turnstile` class and renders widgets when the page loads.

### Use cases

Cloudflare recommends using implicit rendering on the following scenarios:

- You have simple implementations and want a quick integration.
- You have static websites with straightforward forms.
- You want widgets to appear immediately on pageload.
- You do not need programmatic control of the widget.

### Implementation

#### 1. Add the Turnstile script

Add the Turnstile JavaScript API to your HTML.

```html wrap
<script
	src="https://challenges.cloudflare.com/turnstile/v0/api.js"
	async
	defer
></script>
```

:::caution
The `api.js` file must be fetched from the exact URL shown above. Proxying or caching this file will cause Turnstile to fail when future updates are released.
:::

#### 2. Add widget elements

Add widget containers where you want the challenges to appear on your website.

```html wrap
<div class="cf-turnstile" data-sitekey="<YOUR-SITE-KEY>"></div>
```

#### 3. Configure with data attributes

[Customize your widgets](/turnstile/get-started/client-side-rendering/widget-configurations/) using data attributes.

```html
<div
	class="cf-turnstile"
	data-sitekey="<YOUR-SITE-KEY>"
	data-theme="light"
	data-size="normal"
	data-callback="onSuccess"
></div>
```

### Complete implicit rendering examples by use case

<Details header="Basic login form">
```html title="Example"
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
    <title>Login Form</title>
    <script src="https://challenges.cloudflare.com/turnstile/v0/api.js" async defer></script>
</head>
<body>
    <form action="/login" method="POST">
        <input type="text" name="username" placeholder="Username" required />
        <input type="password" name="password" placeholder="Password" required />

        <!-- Turnstile widget with basic configuration -->
        <div class="cf-turnstile" data-sitekey="<YOUR-SITE-KEY>"></div>
        <button type="submit">Log in</button>
    </form>

</body>
</html>
```
</Details>

<Details header="Advanced form with callbacks">

```html title="Example"
<form action="/contact" method="POST" id="contact-form">
	<input type="email" name="email" placeholder="Email" required />
	<textarea name="message" placeholder="Message" required></textarea>
	<!-- Widget with callbacks and custom configuration -->
	<div
		class="cf-turnstile"
		data-sitekey="<YOUR-SITE-KEY>"
		data-theme="auto"
		data-size="flexible"
		data-callback="onTurnstileSuccess"
		data-error-callback="onTurnstileError"
		data-expired-callback="onTurnstileExpired"
	></div>
	<button type="submit" id="submit-btn" disabled>Send Message</button>
</form>

<script>
	function onTurnstileSuccess(token) {
		console.log("Turnstile success:", token);
		document.getElementById("submit-btn").disabled = false;
	}
	function onTurnstileError(errorCode) {
		console.error("Turnstile error:", errorCode);
		document.getElementById("submit-btn").disabled = true;
	}
	function onTurnstileExpired() {
		console.warn("Turnstile token expired");
		document.getElementById("submit-btn").disabled = true;
	}
</script>
```

</Details>

<Details header="Multiple widgets with different configurations">

```html title="Example"
<!-- Compact widget for newsletter signup -->
<form action="/newsletter" method="POST">
	<input type="email" name="email" placeholder="Email" />
	<div
		class="cf-turnstile"
		data-sitekey="<YOUR-SITE-KEY>"
		data-size="compact"
		data-action="newsletter"
	></div>
	<button type="submit">Subscribe</button>
</form>

<!-- Normal widget for contact form -->
<form action="/contact" method="POST">
	<input type="text" name="name" placeholder="Name" />
	<input type="email" name="email" placeholder="Email" />
	<textarea name="message" placeholder="Message"></textarea>
	<div
		class="cf-turnstile"
		data-sitekey="<YOUR-SITE-KEY>"
		data-action="contact"
		data-theme="dark"
	></div>
	<button type="submit">Send</button>
</form>
```

</Details>

<Details header="Automatic form integration">

When you embed a Turnstile widget inside a `<form>` element, an invisible input field with the name `cf-turnstile-response` is automatically created. This field contains the verification token and gets submitted with your other form data.

```html
<form action="/submit" method="POST">
	<input type="text" name="data" />
	<div class="cf-turnstile" data-sitekey="<YOUR-SITE-KEY>"></div>
	<!-- Hidden field automatically added: -->
	<!-- <input type="hidden" name="cf-turnstile-response" value="TOKEN_VALUE" /> -->
	<button type="submit">Submit</button>
</form>
```

</Details>

---

## Explicit rendering

Explicit rendering gives you programmatic control over when and how widgets are created using JavaScript functions.

### Use cases

Cloudflare recommends using explicit rendering on the following scenarios:

- You have dynamic websites and single-page applications (SPAs).
- You need to control the timing of widget creation.
- You want to conditionally render the widget based on visitor interactions.
- You want multiple widgets with different configurations.
- You have complex applications requiring widget lifecycle management.

### Implementation

#### 1. Add the script to your website with explicit rendering

```html wrap
<script
	src="https://challenges.cloudflare.com/turnstile/v0/api.js?render=explicit"
	defer
></script>
```

#### 2. Create container elements

Create containers without the `cf-turnstile` class.

```html
<div id="turnstile-container"></div>
```

#### 3. Render the widgets programmatically

Call `turnstile.render()` when you are ready to create the widget.

```js
const widgetId = turnstile.render("#turnstile-container", {
	sitekey: "<YOUR-SITE-KEY>",
	callback: function (token) {
		console.log("Success:", token);
	},
});
```

### Complete explicit rendering examples by use case

<Details header="Basic explicit implementation">

```html title="Example"
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
	<head>
		<title>Explicit Rendering</title>
		<script
			src="https://challenges.cloudflare.com/turnstile/v0/api.js?render=explicit"
			defer
		></script>
	</head>
	<body>
		<form id="login-form">
			<input type="text" name="username" placeholder="Username" />
			<input type="password" name="password" placeholder="Password" />
			<div id="turnstile-widget"></div>
			<button type="submit">Login</button>
		</form>

		<script>
			window.onload = function () {
				turnstile.render("#turnstile-widget", {
					sitekey: "<YOUR-SITE-KEY>",
					callback: function (token) {
						console.log("Turnstile token:", token);
						// Handle successful verification
					},
					"error-callback": function (errorCode) {
						console.error("Turnstile error:", errorCode);
					},
				});
			};
		</script>
	</body>
</html>
```

</Details>

<Details header="Using onload callback">

```html title="Example"
<script
	src="https://challenges.cloudflare.com/turnstile/v0/api.js?render=explicit&onload=onTurnstileLoad"
	defer
></script>
<div id="widget-container"></div>
<script>
	function onTurnstileLoad() {
		turnstile.render("#widget-container", {
			sitekey: "<YOUR-SITE-KEY>",
			theme: "light",
			callback: function (token) {
				console.log("Challenge completed:", token);
			},
		});
	}
</script>
```

</Details>

<Details header="Advanced SPA implementation">

```html title="Example"
<div id="dynamic-form-container"></div>

<script src="https://challenges.cloudflare.com/turnstile/v0/api.js?render=explicit"></script>

<script>
	class TurnstileManager {
		constructor() {
			this.widgets = new Map();
		}
		createWidget(containerId, config) {
			// Wait for Turnstile to be ready
			turnstile.ready(() => {
				const widgetId = turnstile.render(containerId, {
					sitekey: config.sitekey,
					theme: config.theme || "auto",
					size: config.size || "normal",
					callback: (token) => {
						console.log(`Widget ${widgetId} completed:`, token);
						if (config.onSuccess) config.onSuccess(token, widgetId);
					},
					"error-callback": (error) => {
						console.error(`Widget ${widgetId} error:`, error);
						if (config.onError) config.onError(error, widgetId);
					},
				});

				this.widgets.set(containerId, widgetId);
				return widgetId;
			});
		}
		removeWidget(containerId) {
			const widgetId = this.widgets.get(containerId);
			if (widgetId) {
				turnstile.remove(widgetId);
				this.widgets.delete(containerId);
			}
		}
		resetWidget(containerId) {
			const widgetId = this.widgets.get(containerId);
			if (widgetId) {
				turnstile.reset(widgetId);
			}
		}
	}

	// Usage
	const manager = new TurnstileManager();

	// Create a widget when user clicks a button
	document.getElementById("show-form-btn").addEventListener("click", () => {
		document.getElementById("dynamic-form-container").innerHTML = `
        <form>
            <input type="email" placeholder="Email" />
            <div id="turnstile-widget"></div>
            <button type="submit">Submit</button>
        </form>
    `;
		manager.createWidget("#turnstile-widget", {
			sitekey: "<YOUR-SITE-KEY>",
			theme: "dark",
			onSuccess: (token) => {
				// Handle successful verification
				console.log("Form ready for submission");
			},
		});
	});
</script>
```

</Details>

### Widget lifecycle management

Explicit rendering provides full control over the widget lifecycle.

```js
// Render a widget
const widgetId = turnstile.render("#container", {
	sitekey: "<YOUR-SITE-KEY>",
	callback: handleSuccess,
});

// Get the current token
const token = turnstile.getResponse(widgetId);

// Check if widget is expired
const isExpired = turnstile.isExpired(widgetId);

// Reset the widget (clears current state)
turnstile.reset(widgetId);

// Remove the widget completely
turnstile.remove(widgetId);
```

### Execution mode

Control when challenges run with execution modes.

```js
// Render widget but don't run challenge yet
const widgetId = turnstile.render("#container", {
	sitekey: "<YOUR-SITE-KEY>",
	execution: "execute", // Don't auto-execute
});

// Later, run the challenge when needed
turnstile.execute("#container");
```

---

## Configuration options

Both implicit and explicit rendering methods support the same configuration options. Refer to the table below for the most commonly used configurations.

| Option           | Description                | Values                                  |
| ---------------- | -------------------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| `sitekey`        | Your widget's sitekey      | Required string                         |
| `theme`          | Visual theme               | `auto`, `light`, `dark`                 |
| `size`           | Widget size                | `normal`, `flexible`, `compact`         |
| `callback`       | Success callback           | Function                                |
| `error-callback` | Error callback             | Function                                |
| `execution`      | When to run the challenge  | `render`, `execute`                     |
| `appearance`     | When the widget is visible | `always`, `execute`, `interaction-only` |

For a complete list of configuration options, refer to [Widget configurations](/turnstile/get-started/client-side-rendering/widget-configurations/).

---

## Testing

<Render file="test-sitekey" product="turnstile" />

---

## Limitations

Turnstile is designed to function only on pages using `http://` or `https://` URI schemes. Other protocols, such as `file://`, are not supported for embedding the widget.

---

## Security requirements

<Render file="security-requirements" product="turnstile" />

Commit message:

PCX-19650: add preconnect to Turnstile docs (#26245)
* PCX-19650: add preconnect to Turnstile docs

* Apply suggestions from code review

---------

Co-authored-by: Patricia Santa Ana <103445940+patriciasantaana@users.noreply.github.com>

src/content/docs/turnstile/get-started/client-side-rendering/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Embed the widget
pcx_content_type: get-started
sidebar:
  order: 3
---

import { Render, Tabs, TabItem, Steps, Details } from "~/components";

Learn how to add the Turnstile widget to your webpage using implicit or explicit rendering methods.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, you must have:

- A Cloudflare account
- [A Turnstile widget](/turnstile/get-started/#1-create-your-widget) with a sitekey
- Access to edit your website's HTML
- Basic knowledge of HTML and JavaScript

## Process

1. Page load: The Turnstile script loads and scans for elements or waits for programmatic calls.
2. Widget rendering: Widgets are created and begin running challenges.
3. Token generation: When a challenge is completed, a token is generated.
4. Form integration: The token is made available via callbacks or hidden form fields.
5. Server validation: Your server receives the token and validates it using the Siteverify API.

## Implicit rendering

Implicit rendering automatically scans your HTML for elements with the `cf-turnstile` class and renders widgets when the page loads.

### Use cases

Cloudflare recommends using implicit rendering on the following scenarios:

- You have simple implementations and want a quick integration.
- You have static websites with straightforward forms.
- You want widgets to appear immediately on pageload.
- You do not need programmatic control of the widget.

### Implementation

#### 1. Add the Turnstile script

Add the Turnstile JavaScript API to your HTML.

```html wrap
<script
	src="https://challenges.cloudflare.com/turnstile/v0/api.js"
	async
	defer
></script>
```

:::caution
The `api.js` file must be fetched from the exact URL shown above. Proxying or caching this file will cause Turnstile to fail when future updates are released.
:::

#### 2. (Optional) Optimize performance with resource hints

Add resource hints to improve loading performance by establishing early connections to Cloudflare servers. Place this `<link>` tag in your HTML `<head>` section before the Turnstile script.

```html wrap
<link rel="preconnect" href="https://challenges.cloudflare.com">
```

#### 3. Add widget elements

Add widget containers where you want the challenges to appear on your website.

```html wrap
<div class="cf-turnstile" data-sitekey="<YOUR-SITE-KEY>"></div>
```

#### 3. Configure with data attributes

[Customize your widgets](/turnstile/get-started/client-side-rendering/widget-configurations/) using data attributes.

```html
<div
	class="cf-turnstile"
	data-sitekey="<YOUR-SITE-KEY>"
	data-theme="light"
	data-size="normal"
	data-callback="onSuccess"
></div>
```

### Complete implicit rendering examples by use case

<Details header="Basic login form">
```html title="Example"
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
    <title>Login Form</title>
    <script src="https://challenges.cloudflare.com/turnstile/v0/api.js" async defer></script>
</head>
<body>
    <form action="/login" method="POST">
        <input type="text" name="username" placeholder="Username" required />
        <input type="password" name="password" placeholder="Password" required />

        <!-- Turnstile widget with basic configuration -->
        <div class="cf-turnstile" data-sitekey="<YOUR-SITE-KEY>"></div>
        <button type="submit">Log in</button>
    </form>

</body>
</html>
```
</Details>

<Details header="Advanced form with callbacks">

```html title="Example"
<form action="/contact" method="POST" id="contact-form">
	<input type="email" name="email" placeholder="Email" required />
	<textarea name="message" placeholder="Message" required></textarea>
	<!-- Widget with callbacks and custom configuration -->
	<div
		class="cf-turnstile"
		data-sitekey="<YOUR-SITE-KEY>"
		data-theme="auto"
		data-size="flexible"
		data-callback="onTurnstileSuccess"
		data-error-callback="onTurnstileError"
		data-expired-callback="onTurnstileExpired"
	></div>
	<button type="submit" id="submit-btn" disabled>Send Message</button>
</form>

<script>
	function onTurnstileSuccess(token) {
		console.log("Turnstile success:", token);
		document.getElementById("submit-btn").disabled = false;
	}
	function onTurnstileError(errorCode) {
		console.error("Turnstile error:", errorCode);
		document.getElementById("submit-btn").disabled = true;
	}
	function onTurnstileExpired() {
		console.warn("Turnstile token expired");
		document.getElementById("submit-btn").disabled = true;
	}
</script>
```

</Details>

<Details header="Multiple widgets with different configurations">

```html title="Example"
<!-- Compact widget for newsletter signup -->
<form action="/newsletter" method="POST">
	<input type="email" name="email" placeholder="Email" />
	<div
		class="cf-turnstile"
		data-sitekey="<YOUR-SITE-KEY>"
		data-size="compact"
		data-action="newsletter"
	></div>
	<button type="submit">Subscribe</button>
</form>

<!-- Normal widget for contact form -->
<form action="/contact" method="POST">
	<input type="text" name="name" placeholder="Name" />
	<input type="email" name="email" placeholder="Email" />
	<textarea name="message" placeholder="Message"></textarea>
	<div
		class="cf-turnstile"
		data-sitekey="<YOUR-SITE-KEY>"
		data-action="contact"
		data-theme="dark"
	></div>
	<button type="submit">Send</button>
</form>
```

</Details>

<Details header="Automatic form integration">

When you embed a Turnstile widget inside a `<form>` element, an invisible input field with the name `cf-turnstile-response` is automatically created. This field contains the verification token and gets submitted with your other form data.

```html
<form action="/submit" method="POST">
	<input type="text" name="data" />
	<div class="cf-turnstile" data-sitekey="<YOUR-SITE-KEY>"></div>
	<!-- Hidden field automatically added: -->
	<!-- <input type="hidden" name="cf-turnstile-response" value="TOKEN_VALUE" /> -->
	<button type="submit">Submit</button>
</form>
```

</Details>

---

## Explicit rendering

Explicit rendering gives you programmatic control over when and how widgets are created using JavaScript functions.

### Use cases

Cloudflare recommends using explicit rendering on the following scenarios:

- You have dynamic websites and single-page applications (SPAs).
- You need to control the timing of widget creation.
- You want to conditionally render the widget based on visitor interactions.
- You want multiple widgets with different configurations.
- You have complex applications requiring widget lifecycle management.

### Implementation

#### 1. Add the script to your website with explicit rendering

```html wrap
<script
	src="https://challenges.cloudflare.com/turnstile/v0/api.js?render=explicit"
	defer
></script>
```

#### 2. Create container elements

Create containers without the `cf-turnstile` class.

```html
<div id="turnstile-container"></div>
```

#### 3. Render the widgets programmatically

Call `turnstile.render()` when you are ready to create the widget.

```js
const widgetId = turnstile.render("#turnstile-container", {
	sitekey: "<YOUR-SITE-KEY>",
	callback: function (token) {
		console.log("Success:", token);
	},
});
```

### Complete explicit rendering examples by use case

<Details header="Basic explicit implementation">

```html title="Example"
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
	<head>
		<title>Explicit Rendering</title>
		<script
			src="https://challenges.cloudflare.com/turnstile/v0/api.js?render=explicit"
			defer
		></script>
	</head>
	<body>
		<form id="login-form">
			<input type="text" name="username" placeholder="Username" />
			<input type="password" name="password" placeholder="Password" />
			<div id="turnstile-widget"></div>
			<button type="submit">Login</button>
		</form>

		<script>
			window.onload = function () {
				turnstile.render("#turnstile-widget", {
					sitekey: "<YOUR-SITE-KEY>",
					callback: function (token) {
						console.log("Turnstile token:", token);
						// Handle successful verification
					},
					"error-callback": function (errorCode) {
						console.error("Turnstile error:", errorCode);
					},
				});
			};
		</script>
	</body>
</html>
```

</Details>

<Details header="Using onload callback">

```html title="Example"
<script
	src="https://challenges.cloudflare.com/turnstile/v0/api.js?render=explicit&onload=onTurnstileLoad"
	defer
></script>
<div id="widget-container"></div>
<script>
	function onTurnstileLoad() {
		turnstile.render("#widget-container", {
			sitekey: "<YOUR-SITE-KEY>",
			theme: "light",
			callback: function (token) {
				console.log("Challenge completed:", token);
			},
		});
	}
</script>
```

</Details>

<Details header="Advanced SPA implementation">

```html title="Example"
<div id="dynamic-form-container"></div>

<script src="https://challenges.cloudflare.com/turnstile/v0/api.js?render=explicit"></script>

<script>
	class TurnstileManager {
		constructor() {
			this.widgets = new Map();
		}
		createWidget(containerId, config) {
			// Wait for Turnstile to be ready
			turnstile.ready(() => {
				const widgetId = turnstile.render(containerId, {
					sitekey: config.sitekey,
					theme: config.theme || "auto",
					size: config.size || "normal",
					callback: (token) => {
						console.log(`Widget ${widgetId} completed:`, token);
						if (config.onSuccess) config.onSuccess(token, widgetId);
					},
					"error-callback": (error) => {
						console.error(`Widget ${widgetId} error:`, error);
						if (config.onError) config.onError(error, widgetId);
					},
				});

				this.widgets.set(containerId, widgetId);
				return widgetId;
			});
		}
		removeWidget(containerId) {
			const widgetId = this.widgets.get(containerId);
			if (widgetId) {
				turnstile.remove(widgetId);
				this.widgets.delete(containerId);
			}
		}
		resetWidget(containerId) {
			const widgetId = this.widgets.get(containerId);
			if (widgetId) {
				turnstile.reset(widgetId);
			}
		}
	}

	// Usage
	const manager = new TurnstileManager();

	// Create a widget when user clicks a button
	document.getElementById("show-form-btn").addEventListener("click", () => {
		document.getElementById("dynamic-form-container").innerHTML = `
        <form>
            <input type="email" placeholder="Email" />
            <div id="turnstile-widget"></div>
            <button type="submit">Submit</button>
        </form>
    `;
		manager.createWidget("#turnstile-widget", {
			sitekey: "<YOUR-SITE-KEY>",
			theme: "dark",
			onSuccess: (token) => {
				// Handle successful verification
				console.log("Form ready for submission");
			},
		});
	});
</script>
```

</Details>

### Widget lifecycle management

Explicit rendering provides full control over the widget lifecycle.

```js
// Render a widget
const widgetId = turnstile.render("#container", {
	sitekey: "<YOUR-SITE-KEY>",
	callback: handleSuccess,
});

// Get the current token
const token = turnstile.getResponse(widgetId);

// Check if widget is expired
const isExpired = turnstile.isExpired(widgetId);

// Reset the widget (clears current state)
turnstile.reset(widgetId);

// Remove the widget completely
turnstile.remove(widgetId);
```

### Execution mode

Control when challenges run with execution modes.

```js
// Render widget but don't run challenge yet
const widgetId = turnstile.render("#container", {
	sitekey: "<YOUR-SITE-KEY>",
	execution: "execute", // Don't auto-execute
});

// Later, run the challenge when needed
turnstile.execute("#container");
```

---

## Configuration options

Both implicit and explicit rendering methods support the same configuration options. Refer to the table below for the most commonly used configurations.

| Option           | Description                | Values                                  |
| ---------------- | -------------------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| `sitekey`        | Your widget's sitekey      | Required string                         |
| `theme`          | Visual theme               | `auto`, `light`, `dark`                 |
| `size`           | Widget size                | `normal`, `flexible`, `compact`         |
| `callback`       | Success callback           | Function                                |
| `error-callback` | Error callback             | Function                                |
| `execution`      | When to run the challenge  | `render`, `execute`                     |
| `appearance`     | When the widget is visible | `always`, `execute`, `interaction-only` |

For a complete list of configuration options, refer to [Widget configurations](/turnstile/get-started/client-side-rendering/widget-configurations/).

---

## Testing

<Render file="test-sitekey" product="turnstile" />

---

## Limitations

Turnstile is designed to function only on pages using `http://` or `https://` URI schemes. Other protocols, such as `file://`, are not supported for embedding the widget.

---

## Security requirements

<Render file="security-requirements" product="turnstile" />
