src/content/docs/style-guide/ai-tooling.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: reference
title: AI Tooling
sidebar:
  order: 4
---

import { Render, Tabs, TabItem } from "~/components";

Use the following AI tools to get the most out of Cloudflare (and our docs).

## llms.txt

<Render file="llms-txt" product="style-guide" />

## MCP

Cloudflare runs a catalog of managed remote MCP Servers which you can connect to using OAuth on clients like [Claude](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/quickstart/user), [Windsurf](https://docs.windsurf.com/windsurf/cascade/mcp), our own [AI Playground](https://playground.ai.cloudflare.com/) or any [SDK that supports MCP](https://github.com/cloudflare/agents/tree/main/packages/agents/src/mcp).

<Tabs>
	<TabItem label="Cursor">

    To install in Cursor, use this [Direct install link](https://cursor.com/en-US/install-mcp?name=cloudflare&config=eyJjb21tYW5kIjoibnB4IG1jcC1yZW1vdGUgaHR0cHM6Ly9kb2NzLm1jcC5jbG91ZGZsYXJlLmNvbS9zc2UifQ%3D%3D).

    </TabItem>
    <TabItem label="VSCode">

    To install in VSCode, use this [Direct install link](vscode:mcp/install?%7B%22name%22%3A%22cloudflare%22%2C%22url%22%3A%22https%3A%2F%2Fdocs.mcp.cloudflare.com%2Fmcp%22%7D).

    </TabItem>
    <TabItem label="Manually">

    To install manually, add the following specification to your MCP config:

    ```json
    	{
    		"mcpServers": {
    				"cloudflare": {
    				"command": "npx",
    				"args": ["mcp-remote", "https://docs.mcp.cloudflare.com/mcp"]
    			}
    		}
    	}
    ```

    </TabItem>

</Tabs>

:::note

For other MCP servers offered by Cloudflare, refer to [Cloudflare's MCP servers](/agents/model-context-protocol/mcp-servers-for-cloudflare/).

:::

## Skills

Our docs site also supports [agent skills](https://agentskills.io/home) that are defined in the [Cloudflare Skills repo](https://github.com/cloudflare/skills).

To install them:

```sh
$ npx skills add https://developers.cloudflare.com
```

Commit message:

[Style guide] AI resources for doc contributors (#28246)

src/content/docs/style-guide/ai-tooling.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: reference
title: AI tooling
sidebar:
  order: 4
---

import { Render, Tabs, TabItem } from "~/components";

Use the following AI tools to get the most out of Cloudflare (and our docs).

## llms.txt

<Render file="llms-txt" product="style-guide" />

## MCP

Cloudflare runs a catalog of managed remote MCP Servers which you can connect to using OAuth on clients like [Claude](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/quickstart/user), [Windsurf](https://docs.windsurf.com/windsurf/cascade/mcp), our own [AI Playground](https://playground.ai.cloudflare.com/) or any [SDK that supports MCP](https://github.com/cloudflare/agents/tree/main/packages/agents/src/mcp).

<Tabs>
	<TabItem label="Cursor">

    To install in Cursor, use this [Direct install link](https://cursor.com/en-US/install-mcp?name=cloudflare&config=eyJjb21tYW5kIjoibnB4IG1jcC1yZW1vdGUgaHR0cHM6Ly9kb2NzLm1jcC5jbG91ZGZsYXJlLmNvbS9zc2UifQ%3D%3D).

    </TabItem>
    <TabItem label="VSCode">

    To install in VSCode, use this [Direct install link](vscode:mcp/install?%7B%22name%22%3A%22cloudflare%22%2C%22url%22%3A%22https%3A%2F%2Fdocs.mcp.cloudflare.com%2Fmcp%22%7D).

    </TabItem>
    <TabItem label="Manually">

    To install manually, add the following specification to your MCP config:

    ```json
    	{
    		"mcpServers": {
    				"cloudflare": {
    				"command": "npx",
    				"args": ["mcp-remote", "https://docs.mcp.cloudflare.com/mcp"]
    			}
    		}
    	}
    ```

    </TabItem>

</Tabs>

:::note

For other MCP servers offered by Cloudflare, refer to [Cloudflare's MCP servers](/agents/model-context-protocol/mcp-servers-for-cloudflare/).

:::

## Skills

Our docs site also supports [agent skills](https://agentskills.io/home) that are defined in the [Cloudflare Skills repo](https://github.com/cloudflare/skills).

To install them:

```sh
$ npx skills add https://developers.cloudflare.com
```

## AI resources for documentation contributors

The `cloudflare-docs` repository includes an [`AGENTS.md`](https://github.com/cloudflare/cloudflare-docs/blob/production/AGENTS.md) file that helps AI agents understand the structure, tooling, and conventions of the repository so they can make correct, buildable changes.

AGENTS.md is a simple, open format for guiding coding agents — refer to the [AGENTS.md](https://agents.md/) website for more information.

The documentation repository also includes specific configuration for the following AI tools:

- [OpenCode](https://opencode.ai/)
- [Windsurf](https://windsurf.com/)

We provide scripts to set up other AI tools (currently Claude Code, Cursor, and GitHub Copilot) via [`rulesync`](https://github.com/dyoshikawa/rulesync), a tool for synchronizing AI tool configurations.

If you are a documentation contributor and you would like to use Claude Code, Cursor, or GitHub Copilot, use one of the following scripts:

```bash
# Configure Claude Code
npm run ai-setup:claudecode

# Configure Cursor
npm run ai-setup:cursor

# Configure GitHub Copilot
npm run ai-setup:copilot
```

Each script will import AI tool components (commands and subagents) from the OpenCode configuration committed to the repository and generate back specific configuration files in the expected locations for your selected AI tool.
