src/content/docs/ai-crawl-control/features/pay-per-crawl/use-pay-per-crawl-as-site-owner/set-a-pay-per-crawl-price.mdx, before:

---
title: Set a pay per crawl price
pcx_content_type: how-to
sidebar:
  order: 3
---

import { Steps, DashButton } from "~/components";

```mermaid
graph LR
A[Enable in<br>account settings] --> B[Set a pay per <br/>crawl price ]:::highlight
B --> C[Select crawlers<br>to charge]
C --> D[Monitor<br>activity]
D --> E[Manage<br>payouts]
classDef highlight fill:#F6821F,color:white

click A "/ai-crawl-control/features/pay-per-crawl/use-pay-per-crawl-as-site-owner/enable-in-account-settings/"
click C "/ai-crawl-control/features/pay-per-crawl/use-pay-per-crawl-as-site-owner/select-crawlers-to-charge/"
click D "/ai-crawl-control/features/pay-per-crawl/use-pay-per-crawl-as-site-owner/monitor-activity/"
click E "/ai-crawl-control/features/pay-per-crawl/use-pay-per-crawl-as-site-owner/manage-payouts/"
```

Once your domain's visibility is set to **Visible** in Account Settings, you can set a pay per crawl price and enable pay per crawl for that domain.

{/* prettier-ignore */}
<Steps>
1. Go to **AI Crawl Control**.

   <DashButton url="/?to=/:account/:zone/ai" />

2. Go to the **Settings** tab.
3. In the **Pay Per Crawl** card, select **Enable**.
4. Set your per crawl price - this is the amount charged for each successful content retrieval (HTTP 200 response) by an AI crawler.
5. Select **Save**.
</Steps>

After enabling and setting a price, the domain's status in Account Settings will change to **Enabled**.

:::note[Pricing considerations]
The minimum price is $0.01 USD per crawl. Consider your content value and expected crawler volume when setting your price.
:::

Commit message:

AI Crawl Control: Pay Per Crawl customization features (#26615)
* AI Crawl Control: added docs for new Pay Per Crawl customization features

* PCX review

* AI Crawl Control: improved error code page structure, added updates to clarify always-free routes and in-band pricing behavior

* AI Crawl Control: fixed build-breaking tag indentation

* Pay Per Crawl: updated changelog dates

* Pay Per Crawl: removed new feature details

---------

Co-authored-by: Cameron Whiteside <cwhiteside@cloudflare.com>
Co-authored-by: Jun Lee <junlee@cloudflare.com>

src/content/docs/ai-crawl-control/features/pay-per-crawl/use-pay-per-crawl-as-site-owner/set-a-pay-per-crawl-price.mdx, after:

---
title: Set a pay per crawl price
pcx_content_type: how-to
sidebar:
  order: 3
---

import { Steps, DashButton } from "~/components";

```mermaid
graph LR
A[Enable in<br>account settings] --> B[Set a pay per <br/>crawl price ]:::highlight
B --> C[Select crawlers<br>to charge]
C --> D[Monitor<br>activity]
D --> E[Manage<br>payouts]
classDef highlight fill:#F6821F,color:white

click A "/ai-crawl-control/features/pay-per-crawl/use-pay-per-crawl-as-site-owner/enable-in-account-settings/"
click C "/ai-crawl-control/features/pay-per-crawl/use-pay-per-crawl-as-site-owner/select-crawlers-to-charge/"
click D "/ai-crawl-control/features/pay-per-crawl/use-pay-per-crawl-as-site-owner/monitor-activity/"
click E "/ai-crawl-control/features/pay-per-crawl/use-pay-per-crawl-as-site-owner/manage-payouts/"
```

Once your domain's visibility is set to **Visible** in Account Settings, you can set a pay per crawl price and enable pay per crawl for that domain.

{/* prettier-ignore */}
<Steps>
1. Go to **AI Crawl Control**.

   <DashButton url="/?to=/:account/:zone/ai" />

2. Go to the **Settings** tab.
3. In the **Pay Per Crawl** card, select **Enable**.
4. Set your default per crawl price. This is the amount charged for each successful content retrieval (HTTP 200 response) by an AI crawler.
   - (Optional) To set different prices for different content, select **Enable custom pricing**. Refer to [Advanced configuration](/ai-crawl-control/features/pay-per-crawl/use-pay-per-crawl-as-site-owner/advanced-configuration/#custom-pricing) for details.
5. Select **Save**.
</Steps>

After enabling and setting a price, the domain's status in Account Settings will change to **Enabled**.

:::note[Pricing considerations]
The minimum price is $0.01 USD per crawl. Consider your content value and expected crawler volume when setting your price.
:::
