src/content/docs/ssl/edge-certificates/changing-dcv-method/methods/txt.mdx, before:

---
title: TXT
pcx_content_type: how-to
sidebar:
  order: 2
head:
  - tag: title
    content: TXT method — Domain Control Validation — SSL/TLS
---

import { Render, TabItem, Tabs } from "~/components";

<Render file="txt-validation-definition" product="ssl" /> <br />

---

## When to use

Generally, you need to perform TXT-based DCV when your certificate [requires DCV](/ssl/edge-certificates/changing-dcv-method/) and you cannot perform [Delegated DCV](/ssl/edge-certificates/changing-dcv-method/methods/delegated-dcv/).

---

## Setup

### Specify DCV method

<Render file="generic-validation-process" product="ssl" />

### Get DCV values

<Render file="txt-validation-preamble" product="ssl" />

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="API">

<Render file="txt-validation-api" product="ssl" />

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Dashboard">

<Render file="txt-validation-dashboard" product="ssl" />

</TabItem> </Tabs>

### Update DNS records

At your authoritative DNS provider, create a TXT record named the `txt_name` and containing the `txt_value`.

Repeat this process for all the DCV records returned in the `validation_records` field to your Authoritative DNS provider.

If one or more of the hostnames on the certificate fail to validate, the certificate will not be issued or renewed.

This means that a wildcard certificate covering `example.com` and `*.example.com` will require two DCV tokens to be placed at the authoritative DNS provider. Similarly, a certificate with five hostnames in the SAN (including a wildcard) will require five DCV tokens to be placed at the authoritative DNS provider.

### Complete DCV

Once you update your DNS records, you can either [wait for the next retry](/ssl/edge-certificates/changing-dcv-method/validation-backoff-schedule/) or request an immediate recheck.

<Render file="dcv-validate-patch" product="ssl" />

TXT records used for DCV can be removed from your authoritative DNS provider as soon as the certificate is issued.

## Renewal

<Render file="dcv-certificate-renewal" product="ssl" />

<Render file="dcv-renewal-fallback" product="ssl" />

[^2]: Meaning that another DNS provider - not Cloudflare - maintains your Authoritative DNS.

Commit message:

[SSL] Add note on DCV tokens for multiple certificate packs (#25984)
Clarify the requirement for multiple DCV tokens for certificates with different packs.
CUSTESC-45241

src/content/docs/ssl/edge-certificates/changing-dcv-method/methods/txt.mdx, after:

---
title: TXT
pcx_content_type: how-to
sidebar:
  order: 2
head:
  - tag: title
    content: TXT method — Domain Control Validation — SSL/TLS
---

import { Render, TabItem, Tabs } from "~/components";

<Render file="txt-validation-definition" product="ssl" /> <br />

---

## When to use

Generally, you need to perform TXT-based DCV when your certificate [requires DCV](/ssl/edge-certificates/changing-dcv-method/) and you cannot perform [Delegated DCV](/ssl/edge-certificates/changing-dcv-method/methods/delegated-dcv/).

---

## Setup

### Specify DCV method

<Render file="generic-validation-process" product="ssl" />

### Get DCV values

<Render file="txt-validation-preamble" product="ssl" />

<Tabs syncKey="dashPlusAPI"> <TabItem label="API">

<Render file="txt-validation-api" product="ssl" />

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Dashboard">

<Render file="txt-validation-dashboard" product="ssl" />

</TabItem> </Tabs>

### Update DNS records

At your authoritative DNS provider, create a TXT record named the `txt_name` and containing the `txt_value`.

Repeat this process for all the DCV records returned in the `validation_records` field to your Authoritative DNS provider.

If one or more of the hostnames on the certificate fail to validate, the certificate will not be issued or renewed.

This means that a wildcard certificate covering `example.com` and `*.example.com` will require two DCV tokens to be placed at the authoritative DNS provider. Similarly, a certificate with five hostnames in the SAN (including a wildcard) will require five DCV tokens to be placed at the authoritative DNS provider.
Certificates with several packs (RSA and ECDSA for example) may also require several DCV tokens.

### Complete DCV

Once you update your DNS records, you can either [wait for the next retry](/ssl/edge-certificates/changing-dcv-method/validation-backoff-schedule/) or request an immediate recheck.

<Render file="dcv-validate-patch" product="ssl" />

TXT records used for DCV can be removed from your authoritative DNS provider as soon as the certificate is issued.

## Renewal

<Render file="dcv-certificate-renewal" product="ssl" />

<Render file="dcv-renewal-fallback" product="ssl" />

[^2]: Meaning that another DNS provider - not Cloudflare - maintains your Authoritative DNS.
