src/content/partials/networking-services/mconn/network-options/nat-subnet.mdx, before:

---
params:
  - productName
  - connectorName
  - hardConnectorURL
  - virtualConnectorURL
  - configHardProductName
  - configVirtualProductName
---

Each subnet (directly-attached or routed) must have a unique address space within your {props.productName}. You can re-use address spaces locally by enabling static network address translation (NAT) for a subnet. NAT is static. This means that inbound connections - from {props.productName} to the site behind the {props.connectorName} - are allowed, and connections do not have to be initiated by hosts behind the {props.connectorName}. NAT is also 1:1, that is, the {props.connectorName} will translate between corresponding addresses in two equal-sized prefixes.

To enable NAT, supply a WAN-facing address prefix the same size as the subnet's prefix, and the {props.connectorName} will translate between the two.

For example:

- **Prefix**: `192.168.100.0/24`
- **Static NAT prefix**: `10.10.100.0/24`

With the example above, outbound traffic from host `192.168.100.13` in the subnet is translated to `10.10.100.13` in the {props.connectorName} (and vice versa for incoming traffic).

:::note
Even if NAT is enabled, the local prefix for a subnet must be unique within its LAN. It can, however, be reused on other LANs or other sites. Overlay-facing prefixes - that is, a subnet's NAT prefix if NAT is enabled, and its local prefix otherwise - must always be unique across your whole {props.productName}.
:::

## Create NATs for subnets

For more information on how to a create a NAT for a subnets, refer to **Create a LAN**, either in <a href={props.hardConnectorURL}>{props.configHardProductName}</a> or in <a href={props.virtualConnectorURL}>{props.configVirtualProductName}</a>.

Commit message:

[Magic] Docs cleanup  (#26285)
* updated links

* updated urls

* removed vars and hardcoded links

* removed vars

* removed wan tunnels glossary

* hardcoded magic wan

* hardcoded mfirewall

* updated url

* vars

* moved out of cond

* added var

* refined text

* refined text

* refined text

* corrected step names

* corrected

* refined steps

* corrected steps

* removed unecessary vars

* virtual comment

* removed unnecessary var

* uncessesary var

* refined step

* removed extra var

* removed var

* removed var

* removed vars

* refined text

* removed vars

* corrected steps

* refined

* removed vars

* refined text

* corrected links

* refined step

* refined steps

* refined steps

* refined steps

* refined steps

* hardcoded params

* removed var

* refined step

* removed vars

* removed vars

* removed vars

* removed vars

* removed vars

* removed vars

* removed vars

* removed var

* removed var

* removed vars

* fix link

* corrected link

* removed var

* removed vars

* corrected steps

* refined text

* markdown list

* refined step

* refined vars

* refined vars

* refined steps

* refined steps

* refined steps

* removed var

* corrected link

* hardcoded var

* refined logic

* removed var

* removed var

* removed var

* corrected link

* corrected links

* removed var

* simplified logic

* corrected link

* hardcoded name

* removed var

* hardcoded name

* hardcoded name

* refactored partial

* consolidaded partials

* removed vars

* hardcoded name

* folder name

* folder name

* cf1

src/content/partials/networking-services/mconn/network-options/nat-subnet.mdx, after:

---
params:
  - hardConnectorURL
  - virtualConnectorURL
---

Each subnet (directly-attached or routed) must have a unique address space within your Magic WAN. You can re-use address spaces locally by enabling static network address translation (NAT) for a subnet. NAT is static. This means that inbound connections - from Magic WAN to the site behind the Connector - are allowed, and connections do not have to be initiated by hosts behind the Magic WAN Connector. NAT is also 1:1, that is, the  Connector will translate between corresponding addresses in two equal-sized prefixes.

To enable NAT, supply a WAN-facing address prefix the same size as the subnet's prefix, and the Magic WAN Connector will translate between the two.

For example:

- **Prefix**: `192.168.100.0/24`
- **Static NAT prefix**: `10.10.100.0/24`

With the example above, outbound traffic from host `192.168.100.13` in the subnet is translated to `10.10.100.13` in the Magic WAN Connector (and vice versa for incoming traffic).

:::note
Even if NAT is enabled, the local prefix for a subnet must be unique within its LAN. It can, however, be reused on other LANs or other sites. Overlay-facing prefixes - that is, a subnet's NAT prefix if NAT is enabled, and its local prefix otherwise - must always be unique across your whole Magic WAN.
:::

## Create NATs for subnets

For more information on how to a create a NAT for a subnets, refer to **Create a LAN**, either in <a href={props.hardConnectorURL}>Configure hardware Connector</a> or in <a href={props.virtualConnectorURL}>Configure Virtual Connector</a>.
