src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/insights/index.mdx, before:

---
pcx_content_type: navigation
title: Insights
sidebar:
  order: 4
---

import { DirectoryListing, Render } from "~/components";

Cloudflare One offers observability tools to monitor and troubleshoot your environment:

- [Analytics Overview](/cloudflare-one/insights/analytics-overview/) to monitor overall Cloudflare One usage.
- [Analytics Dashboards](/cloudflare-one/insights/analytics/) to review organizational traffic trends and policy insights.
- [Logs](/cloudflare-one/insights/logs/) for event-level investigation.  
- [Digital Experience Monitoring (DEX)](/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/) for device, network, and application performance.

## Troubleshooting workflow example

A user reports they cannot reach an internal application behind [Cloudflare Access](/cloudflare-one/). To address the issue:

1. The admin checks the [Access Event Analytics dashboard](/cloudflare-one/insights/analytics-overview/) to review if other users are experiencing similar issues.
2. The admin then reviews [Logs](/cloudflare-one/insights/logs/) to examine the user's authentication attempts and blocked requests.
3. Finally, the admin uses [DEX](/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/) to evaluate the user's device health and network performance.

## How to use these tools together

### Onboarding

After onboarding your devices and users, use these tools to confirm everything is set up correctly and to monitor your organization's activity.

  1. Start with [Logs](/cloudflare-one/insights/logs/) to validate initial configuration and confirm that authentication is successful.
  2. Use [Analytics Overview](/cloudflare-one/insights/analytics-overview/) to confirm expected patterns and policy activity.

### Daily monitoring

  1. Use [Analytics Dashboards](/cloudflare-one/insights/analytics/) to understand trends and for visualizations of your log data.

      Administrators typically start with Analytics Dashboards because they offer:

      - A high-level view of activity across your products, like Access, or security use cases, such as AI and shadow IT.  
      - Visibility into trends, provided through time-series graphs, to track the evolution of key metrics (such as [DNS queries](/cloudflare-one/insights/analytics/gateway/#dns-query-analytics), [network sessions](/cloudflare-one/insights/analytics/gateway/#network-session-analytics), [HTTP requests](/cloudflare-one/insights/analytics/gateway/#http-request-analytics), and [CASB posture/content findings](/cloudflare-one/insights/analytics/data-analytics/)) over time.

  2. Use [Logs](/cloudflare-one/insights/logs/) as needed for event-level verification.

      Use Logs when you need to:

      - Investigate a specific event; for example, a user's [failed authentication attempt](/cloudflare-one/insights/logs/audit-logs/) when trying to log into an application.
      - Validate identity or device details; for example, confirming which user made the request, how they authenticated, and whether their device met required [posture conditions](/cloudflare-one/insights/logs/posture-logs/).
      - Confirm policy matches; for example, verifying which [specific rule](/cloudflare-one/access-controls/policies/#rule-types) allowed, blocked, or challenged a user's request and why it was applied.

### User-reported issues

Users may report problems like slow or failing connections to internal apps.

  1. Start with [Analytics Dashboards](/cloudflare-one/insights/analytics/) to review whether the issue impacts others.  
  2. Check [Logs](/cloudflare-one/insights/logs/) for failed authentication attempts, blocked requests, or unexpected policy matches.
  3. Use [DEX](/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/) to diagnose device- or network-level causes with [synthetic tests](/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/tests/) and [device monitoring](/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/monitoring/).

Commit message:

[CF1] Add DEX to replace your VPN learning path (#27604)
* [CF1] Add DEX to replace your VPN learning path

* Chris meeting 1st update

* final edits

* final edits

* warp tb guide link

* final edits

src/content/docs/cloudflare-one/insights/index.mdx, after:

---
pcx_content_type: navigation
title: Insights
sidebar:
  order: 4
---

import { DirectoryListing, Render } from "~/components";

Cloudflare One offers observability tools to monitor and troubleshoot your environment:

- [Analytics Overview](/cloudflare-one/insights/analytics-overview/) to monitor overall Cloudflare One usage.
- [Analytics Dashboards](/cloudflare-one/insights/analytics/) to review organizational traffic trends and policy insights.
- [Logs](/cloudflare-one/insights/logs/) for event-level investigation.  
- [Digital Experience Monitoring (DEX)](/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/) for device, network, and application performance.

## Troubleshooting workflow example

A user reports they cannot reach an internal application behind [Cloudflare Access](/cloudflare-one/). To address the issue:

1. The admin checks the [Access Event Analytics dashboard](/cloudflare-one/insights/analytics-overview/) to review if other users are experiencing similar issues.
2. The admin then reviews [Logs](/cloudflare-one/insights/logs/) to examine the user's authentication attempts and blocked requests.
3. Finally, the admin uses [DEX](/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/) to evaluate the user's device health and network performance.

## How to use these tools together

### Onboarding

After onboarding your devices and users, use these tools to confirm everything is set up correctly and to monitor your organization's activity.

  1. Start with [Logs](/cloudflare-one/insights/logs/) to validate initial configuration and confirm that authentication is successful.
  2. Use [Analytics Overview](/cloudflare-one/insights/analytics-overview/) to confirm expected patterns and policy activity.

If your device is experiencing connectivity issues, Cloudflare recommends starting with [troubleshooting WARP](/cloudflare-one/team-and-resources/devices/warp/troubleshooting/troubleshooting-guide/) as WARP misconfiguration is the most common cause of connectivity issues.

### Daily monitoring

  1. Use [Analytics Dashboards](/cloudflare-one/insights/analytics/) to understand trends and for visualizations of your log data.

      Administrators typically start with Analytics Dashboards because they offer:

      - A high-level view of activity across your products, like Access, or security use cases, such as AI and shadow IT.  
      - Visibility into trends, provided through time-series graphs, to track the evolution of key metrics (such as [DNS queries](/cloudflare-one/insights/analytics/gateway/#dns-query-analytics), [network sessions](/cloudflare-one/insights/analytics/gateway/#network-session-analytics), [HTTP requests](/cloudflare-one/insights/analytics/gateway/#http-request-analytics), and [CASB posture/content findings](/cloudflare-one/insights/analytics/data-analytics/)) over time.

  2. Use [Logs](/cloudflare-one/insights/logs/) as needed for event-level verification.

      Use Logs when you need to:

      - Investigate a specific event; for example, a user's [failed authentication attempt](/cloudflare-one/insights/logs/audit-logs/) when trying to log into an application.
      - Validate identity or device details; for example, confirming which user made the request, how they authenticated, and whether their device met required [posture conditions](/cloudflare-one/insights/logs/posture-logs/).
      - Confirm policy matches; for example, verifying which [specific rule](/cloudflare-one/access-controls/policies/#rule-types) allowed, blocked, or challenged a user's request and why it was applied.

### User-reported issues

Users may report problems like slow or failing connections to internal apps.

  1. Start with [Analytics Dashboards](/cloudflare-one/insights/analytics/) to review whether the issue impacts others.  
  2. Check [Logs](/cloudflare-one/insights/logs/) for failed authentication attempts, blocked requests, or unexpected policy matches.
  3. Use [DEX](/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/) to diagnose device- or network-level causes with [synthetic tests](/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/tests/) and [device monitoring](/cloudflare-one/insights/dex/monitoring/).
